The Chinese people stepped into the 20th century carrying the national humiliation of the occupation of China's capital, Beijing, by the Eight-Nation Alliance. At that time, the outlook appearing before the Chinese nation seemed to be a gloomy and tragic prospect on the brink of destruction. Since the Opium War in 1840, foreign capitalism has invaded China, causing significant changes in Chinese society and gradually turning it into a semi-colonial and semi-feudal society. To achieve the goal of enslaving and eliminating China, imperialists adopted military, political, economic, cultural, and other means to invade China. And the feudal rulers in China, in order to maintain their own rule, even stooped to rely on imperialism, becoming the agents of Western powers. The 1911 Revolution led by Sun Yat-sen overthrew the monarchical system that had ruled China for thousands of years, initiating a modern democratic revolution in a more complete sense, opening the gate to China's progress, but failed to change the social nature of old China and the miserable plight of the people. After Yuan Shikai seized power in the Republic of China, the political environment in China dramatically deteriorated. Yuan Shikai completely wiped out the small amount of democracy obtained formally through the 1911 Revolution, publically instigating a farce of restoring monarchy. After Yuan Shikai fell from power, China sank into a situation of warlords carving up the country and fighting. Under the manipulation of imperialism, powerful warlords advocated "unification through force", while smaller ones described their actions as “maintaining territorial integrity and ensuring people's safety”. In fact, they were all fighting for power and oppressing the people. Continuous wars between the warlords over the years brought severe destruction and endless disasters to society and people's lives. Around 1915, China experienced several major famines, which brought even more suffering to the people’s lives. 

The invasion of imperialism also forced China to gradually adopt capitalist methods of production. Since the 1860s, China has developed its own national industries. After the Sino-Japanese War, China's national economy grew significantly. From 1895 to 1913, 548 new factories and mines were established across the country, with a total capital of 120.297 million yuan, including 463 entirely commercially managed factories and mines with a total capital of 90.821 million yuan. With the development of China's national economy, the Chinese proletariat grew and strengthened. In 1894, there were approximately 100,000 workers in China's modern industries; by 1914, on the eve of World War I, this number had grown to over 1 million. This demonstrates that imperialism, although massively profiting in China, had also contributed to the creation of revolutionary forces against it.

The dual development threads of national oppression and the rise of modern industry constitute the overall trend of modern Chinese society. Imperialism and feudal forces combined, pushing China into a dark abyss; yet, the emergence of national industry and new social forces brought hope to China's future. Looking over the 110 years of China being a semi-colonial and semi-feudal society, modern China indeed experienced its deepest downfall in the early 20th century (1901-1915).

The First World War accelerated the evolution of Chinese society, triggering a cultural awakening in the intellectual community that was unprecedented. During the war, on September 15, 1915, Chen Duxiu founded the "Youth Magazine" (later renamed to "New Youth" from the second volume), using evolutionism as a weapon to initiate a new cultural movement against Confucianism and the old traditions. The thoughts of the fighters for the new culture were very radical, not recognizing traditional authority and various dogmas, demanding the breaking of spiritual shackles, and using "reason" to critically scrutinize everything. People usually refer to this cultural movement as the "Enlightenment Movement". It has a consistency in nature and content compared to the Enlightenment movement in the West since the 15th century, that is, both are critiques of feudal thought and culture, paving the way for the development of capitalism. However, there are some differences in timing between the two. The Western Enlightenment prepared the ideological groundwork for the outbreak of the European bourgeois revolution, whereas the new cultural movement in China made up for the ideological deficiency after the outbreak of the bourgeois revolution. The movement broke out amidst the backdrop of the world imperialistic great war and domestic warlord chaos, inevitably strengthening the initiators’ resistance against imperialism and feudalism, thereby infusing the movement with new historical content to a certain extent. It prepared the ideological premise and necessary conditions for the subsequent spread of Marxism in China and the outbreak of the May 4th patriotic movement.

The war also exposed the flaws of Western civilization, destroying the idols in the hearts of the Chinese people. The brutal war not only resulted in over ten million deaths and over twenty million injured and disabled, but also almost completely annihilated the material civilization that had been accumulated for many years within a few short years. Liang Qichao arrived in Europe just as the war ended, traveling through the UK, France, Belgium, and other countries. In "Records of a Traveller's Heartfelt Impressions in Europe", he described the scenes he saw of production destruction, faith crisis, social chaos, and public poverty in Europe, sighing that there "the whole society has fallen into a state of despair and fear, like a ship that has lost its compass in a foggy wind, not knowing what to do." This couldn't help but shock the Chinese who were always fond of learning from the West.

It was at this time that many intellectuals began to recognize that Chinese society had to be reformed, and moreover, it needed to be reformed in a direction completely different from Western capitalism. The conclusion Liang Qichao drew after traveling through Europe was: social revolution, perhaps the only characteristic of the 20th century, no country can escape, it is only a matter of sooner or later. Zheng Zhenduo's conclusion after analyzing the various evils of capitalism was: "The society under the domination of capitalism has no room for existence." The concepts of advanced Chinese intellectuals began to undergo profound changes, from longing for Western parliamentary democracy to disappointment, from pursuing capitalism to denial. The "Minxing" magazine at the time wrote: "Republican democracy is not our end, the world revolution is inevitable.”

The idol in the heart has collapsed, but the journey must still continue. Amidst the turbulence of world politics, the First World War and the Russian October Revolution brought new changes to the world, prompting a group of Chinese who cared about the future and destiny of their homeland to start re-exploring the plan to transform society.



At this moment, Marxism caught the attention of progressive Chinese, triggering a wave of enthusiastic propaganda for socialism. At the time, out of the hundreds of publications advocating for "social transformation", the vast majority expressed varying degrees of positive sentiment and longing for socialism. Many publications featured articles introducing and promoting socialism almost in every issue. Some young authors hailed socialism as the "lucky star of humanity", and believed that if China were to "undertake construction, it must follow the principles of socialism", which was seen as the "common ideal of humanity now and in the future".
Socialism became the most popular ideology. However, it should be acknowledged that the "socialism" discussed during this period was quite diverse. In addition to Marx's scientific socialism, it included various factions known as "socialism", such as Stirner's "anarchist individualism", Proudhon's "social anarchism", Bakunin's "collective anarchism", Kropotkin's "mutual aid", Mutsukado's "new village", etc. But one thing was certain: the widespread dissemination of socialist ideals in China at this time was strongly influenced by the crisis of Western capitalism after World War I. When the monthly magazine "Communist Party" was established in Shanghai in 1920, it pointed out: "The economic transformation naturally occupies a major position in humanity's changes. Our production methods, other than capitalism and socialism, have no other way. Capitalism in the West has already developed and is on the verge of collapse ... What naturally follows it is the socialist production method.”

A harmonious socialist society is desirable, but what is this society like, and how can it be achieved? At this point, news of the successful Russian October Revolution reached China. The success of the October Revolution in Russia, led by Lenin, turned socialism from a theory in textbooks into a vivid reality. Marxism was the intellectual weapon of this change. After the October Revolution, despite civil war and armed foreign interference, Russia still held its ground on the world stage and showed vitality, forming a stark contrast with the declining Western capitalism. Consequently, advanced Chinese intellectuals began to turn their attention to the Soviet Union, and to Marxism.

Chinese people came into contact very early with Marx and his teachings. Between September 1902 and 1906, Liang Qichao published several articles in the "New People's Miscellany", introducing Marx and his doctrines. Zhu Zhixin, a bourgeois revolutionary democrat, published an article in the November 1905 issue of "People's Daily", introducing Marx, Engels, their lives, and their teachings. In addition, Sun Yat-sen, Song Jiaoren, and Liao Zhongkai mentioned Marxism in their speeches and articles. Some anarchists mentioned Marx and Engels in their publications and translated their works. However, these introductions were fragmentary, scattered, some even distorted, and the introducers did not adhere to Marxism, with some even criticizing it.




These introductions had, and could not have, a significant impact on the transformation of Chinese society at the time. By the May Fourth period, under the propaganda and instigation of new-style intellectuals in China, introducing Marxism became an unstoppable intellectual trend.

Among the disseminators of Marxism during the May Fourth period, the most influential were Li Dazhao and Chen Duxiu. Both of them had a great influence on a generation of Chinese people, both in thought and politics.
Li Dazhao was the first person to propagate Marxism in China, playing a leading role in the early Marxist propagation movement. From July to November 1918, he successively published articles such as "Comparative View of the French and Russian Revolutions", "Victory of the Common People", and "Victory of Bolshevism", lauding the value and significance of the October Revolution with profound historical insight. After the May Fourth movement, he compiled volume six, issue five of the "New Youth" magazine, which he edited, into the "Marx Research Issue", and published an article "My View of Marxism", for the first time systematically expounding Marxist economic doctrine, historical materialism, and socialist theory in China. Li Dazhao fully affirmed Marxism's historical position, calling it "the doctrine of world transformation". He said, Marx's socialist theory can be roughly divided into three parts: a theory about the past, which is his historical theory, also known as the theory of social organization evolution; a theory about the present, which is his economic theory, also known as the theory of capitalism; and a theory about the future, which is his policy theory, also known as the theory of socialist movement, which is social democracy. "His theory is a completely self-contained, systematic organization." Among them, Marx's historical theory reveals the material causes of social development and class relations, elaborates on the theories of productive forces and relations, economic foundation and superstructure, classes and class struggle; Marx's economic theory elaborates on the "theory of surplus labour and surplus value", reveals the "secret of modern capitalism" and the "capitalist exploitation of labour production mode", which is the fundamental idea of Marx's economic theory. Marx observed the economic condition of modern society with the viewpoints of historical materialism and surplus value principle, analysed and studied the economic organization of capitalism, foresaw that the capitalist system will inevitably be replaced by the socialist system, and then stated that "the means and methods of realizing socialism are still in the ultimate class competition." Hence, Li Dazhao emphasized, Marx's "these three theories are inseparable, and class competition is like a golden thread, linking these three principles fundamentally."
Later, Li Dazhao also published articles such as "Marx's Historical Philosophy" to promote historical materialism. He also taught courses on historical materialism, socialism and social movements at Peking University and Beijing Women's High School. In the theoretical system of Marxism, he took historical materialism as a focus, fully reflecting his urgent desire to find theoretical guidance to solve China's problems.
Unlike Li Dazhao, Chen Duxiu transitioned from a radical democrat to a Marxist slightly later. But because Chen Duxiu had long been the editor of "New Youth", and already had a certain reputation in the New Culture Movement, he quickly became the most influential propagator of Marxism in China. In March 1920, in his article "Malthus's Population Theory and China's Population Problem", he began to contact Marxist views, and made some criticisms of Malthus's theory, while holding a reserved attitude towards Marx's historical materialism. In his subsequent speech "The Awakening of the Laborer", Chen Duxiu expressed the Marxist viewpoint that "labor creates the world", "the worker is the most useful and valuable". He emphasized that the old saying, "those who work with their minds govern people, those who work with their bodies are governed by people", should be reversed to "those who work with their bodies govern people, those who work with their minds are governed by people", which is the correct principle.



Of course, the real change in Chen Duxiu's thought, that is, from critical commentary and agreement, towards endorsing and propagating socialism, started with the article "On Politics" published in September 1920. In this article, Chen Duxiu criticized the anarchist opposition to politics, law, power, and the state, pointing out that the root of global inequality lies in the existence of the bourgeoisie. He stated, "To sweep away this inequality, this suffering, the oppressed productive working class must create new forces themselves, stand on the position of the state, utilize political and legal agencies to completely conquer the oppressive bourgeoisie, and only then can we hope to abolish private property, wage labor and other systems, and eliminate the overly unequal economic conditions." This suggests that he endorses the Marxist attitude and position, clearly approving of the Marxist view of "building a labor (i.e., productive) class state by revolutionary means, creating politics and law that prohibits all forms of plunder, both domestically and internationally, for the primary need of modern society." Chen Duxiu has a historical mission and ideal pursuit of opposing warlords and seeking public happiness. As a revolutionary with a strong action temperament, he has a special fondness for the Marxist theory of social revolution. He created publications, organized groups, and wrote articles to expose the evils of the capitalist system, propagate socialist thought, and effectively pushed for the spread of Marxism in China.

Compared with Chen Duxiu, the outstanding characteristic of Li Dazhao is that he established a firm historical materialism, believed in the great role of the masses in the historical process, recognized that the power of social development could only be sought in the nature of the people themselves, and never in any external forces. Based on this understanding, Li Dazhao emphasized the combination of theory and practice and actively involved himself among the masses.

In addition to Li Dazhao and Chen Duxiu, those who studied and studied Marxism during their studies in Japan, such as Li Da, Yang Kuan, and Li Hanjun, also promoted and expanded the propaganda of Marxism through publishing articles and translating works. Li Da returned to China after translating the books "Explanation of Historical Materialism", "Marx's Economics", and "Social Problems Overview". Among them, "Marx's Economics" was included in the reading list by the Marx Doctrine Research Society established by Li Dazhao at Peking University. After returning to China, Yang Kan published articles such as "Socialism" and "Marxism... Scientific Socialism" on Guangdong's "Zhonghua Xinbao" from October to December 1919. The former praised Marx's "Capital" as a "socialist classic"; the latter systematically introduced Marxism's historical materialism, class struggle theory, and surplus value theory. Li Hanjun translated and wrote about sixty articles related to Marxism in just over two years before the founding of the Chinese Communist Party. In addition, progressive journalist Shao Piaoping also contributed to the spread of Marxism.



During the May Fourth Movement, among those who introduced and studied Marxism, some not only believed that Marxism was the truth but also believed it was a weapon to transform China; some just used it as a Western theory to explore, without connecting it to the actual situation in China; some were studying it to prevent China from following the path guided by Marxism. In terms of class attributes, Marxism is the doctrine for the working class seeking liberation, and it will not be accepted by representatives of other classes. Thus, when the early Chinese Marxists linked Marxism with China's fate, debates were inevitable. Marxism is an ideology that paves the way forward in struggles.



The first debate revolved around the cultural choice of China, i.e., whether the solution to the China issue should be guided by Marxism. In July 1919, Hu Shi, one of the proponents of the May Fourth New Culture Movement, published an article called "Study More Problems, Talk Less about Isms," which sparked a heated debate in the intellectual realm from July to September. Hu Shi's theoretical foundation was experimentalism. He believed that "the greatest danger currently in the public opinion sphere is to incline towards doctrines on paper, without actually investigating what Chinese society needs today", and “it should be known that the first duty of a public opinion leader is to carefully study the real situation of society. All academic theories, all isms, are just tools for such investigations.” He was very opposed to the popular "empty talk of isms."

After Hu Shi's article was published, Li Dazhao and Lan Gongwu wrote articles expressing their dissent. In Li Dazhao and Lan Gongwu's view, all problems are intertwined in an all-encompassing social structure, and the notion or ism to solve these problems needs to be verified through social experiments. People need to use isms as criteria to judge the situation and problems, and also as tools to solve these interconnected issues. Li Dazhao agreed with Hu Shi's view that actual problems should be seriously studied, and that various theories should not be discussed in a vague and unclear manner. However, he did not believe that there was any fundamental contradiction between studying problems and discussing isms. He pointed out that "the solution to a social problem must rely on the joint movement of the majority of people in society", and to "make a social problem the common problem of the majority of people in society," we must "first have a common ideal, an ism." "Our social movement, on the one hand, must indeed study practical issues, and on the other hand, it must also advocate ideal isms. These two aspects are interdependent and compatible." He also pointed out that the study of problems should be based on academic theories; before the study of various problems, there must be a study of various isms. The debate on "problem and ism" was actually a discussion within the progressive intellectuals at that time on the development of Chinese thought and the fate of modern Chinese history. Hu Shi advised people to talk less about isms, advocating that China did not need a profound revolution to solve the problems he mentioned. Li Dazhao pointed out that the popularity of Bolshevism was a major shift in world culture, the theory of class struggle was an important component of historical materialism, and if we did not pay attention to class struggle and did not use this academic theory as a tool to guide the practical movement of workers' union, then the economic revolution may never be realized. In this debate, Li Dazhao and young Marxists from all over the country, based on their understanding at the time, proved that Marxism suits the needs of China, which had a positive effect on the spread of Marxism.

The debate surrounding "problems and isms" further aroused intellectual reflections on China's future. In September 1920, Zhang Dongfu published an article in Shanghai titled "Another Lesson from Travel in the Mainland," arguing that there was only one way to save China, and that was to increase wealth and develop industry. He later stated that the quickest method to develop industry was none other than capitalism. The early Marxists seriously criticized this argument, leading to the debate about the "problem of socialism" during the spread of Marxism.




In May 1921, Li Da pointed out in his article published in "New Youth" that China is the marketplace for all nations. The economic power cultivated by various capitalist countries in China has taken root and is unbreakable. China, under the heavy forces of politics and economics in the era of nascent industries, may face extreme difficulties should it wish to develop capitalism and wage an economic war against other capitalist countries. In the dispute with Zhang Dongfu and others, early Marxists, through comparative analysis of the advantages and disadvantages of both socialist and capitalist systems, essentially proposed the idea that only socialism can develop China's productive forces. Li Dazhao pointed out, "If we want to develop industries in China today, it is essential to have a government organized by pure producers to eliminate the exploiting class within the country and resist world capitalism by managing industries according to socialist organization." Chen Duxiu also emphasized, "To enable all Chinese to acquire a humanly life, it is necessary to abolish the capitalist production system and adopt the socialist production system. At this time, it is both possible and necessary for us in China to talk about socialism." Thus, walking on the socialist path was the common system choice revealed by early communists in China during the dispute, and this choice represents the demands for the advanced productive force development in China.

The third dispute was carried out against anarchists. During the May Fourth Movement, anarchism was widely spread among young intellectuals. It played a constructive role against the monarchical autocratic system and raised people's awakening. However, it advocated for absolute individual freedom, opposition to any organized discipline, all authorities, all nations, and anarchic society and emphasized absolute equality. This opposition to Marxist state doctrine and proletarian dictatorship became a major obstacle to the spread of Marxism. Therefore, another ideological clash began with anarchists like Huang Lingshuang while the debate on socialism with Zhang Dongmi was not yet over. During the debate, "New Youth," "Communist Party" monthly, and others published articles critically attacking anarchism. In January 1922, the "Vanguard," magazine of the Chinese Socialist Youth League, made criticism of anarchism one of its significant tasks.

The Marxist criticism of anarchism was mainly about the form of revolution, essence of the state, and necessity of the dictatorship of the proletariat. They pointed out on one hand that under the exploitation of imperialism and capitalists, the Chinese proletariat had been enduring intolerable pain and had a strong demand for seizing state power through violent revolution. On the other hand, they pointed out that only by establishing the dictatorship of the proletariat can the interests of the laborers be protected. Therefore, the state of the feudal nobility and the bourgeoisie must be completely overthrown, while the state power of the proletariat must be consolidated and enhanced. This represents the right path from capitalism to communism. In addition, Marxists criticized the egalitarianism of anarchists over distribution, emphasizing the refutation of their "absolute freedom" fallacy, pointing out that in human society freedom is always relative, and so-called "absolute freedom" doesn't exist. This conflict criticizing anarchist thought was grand in scale.

The argument between Marxism and non-Marxism was the first confrontation in the spread of Marxism, which had significant and profound influence on China's intellectual field. During this dispute, early Marxists, with unwavering faith, bravely wielded Marxism as a theoretical weapon, refuting various erroneous ideas of the bourgeoisie and petty bourgeoisie. A group of progressive youths dedicated to saving the people and remaking Chinese society began to appreciate the scientific and truthful nature of Marxist theory after this conflict, recognizing that only scientific socialism can achieve the goal of saving people and fundamentally transforming Chinese society.



In the process of establishing their life beliefs and choosing what "ism" to use to transform Chinese society, they ultimately chose scientific socialism, became Marxists, and swiftly become involved in the action of propagating Marxism, associating with the working class, and establishing early Chinese Communist Party (CCP) organizations.

After accepting Marxism, advanced Chinese intellectuals immediately applied it to studying Chinese issues and situation. This practical-oriented value orientation reflected the thought situation of the Chinese intellectual community at that time. After the May Fourth Movement, social reform thinking was widely surging. The "Work-Study Mutual Aid Group" established in 1919, whose initiators included well-known figures like Chen Duxiu, Li Dazhao, and Cai Yuanpei. This trend drove a large number of youths to society, prompting them to understand the reality of social life in China. At the same time, debates with non-Marxist ideologies also promoted early Chinese Marxists to study practical problems. Shortly after Hu Shi proposed "to study more problems", many socialists and their followers began to approach workers and peasants, studying their living conditions, while Hu Shi and his followers rarely engaged in this kind of social investigation and labor movement.

Li Dazhao made significant contributions to the development of practical-oriented value orientation. Long before the May Fourth Movement, he published such articles and encouraged young people to integrate with the public and delve into the reality of Chinese society. Under Li Dazhao's influence, in March 1919, young students such as Deng Zhongxia organized the People's Education Lecture Group of Peking University and carried out organized education and propaganda activities among the people. After the May Fourth Movement, Li Dazhao organized revolutionary elements in Beijing to investigate the living conditions of rickshaw workers on the one hand and sent Deng Zhongxia, Zhang Guozhu and others to propagate among the railway workers in Changxindian, set up labor tutoring schools, established worker clubs, and organized workers. In March 1920, in addition to lectures in the city, the People's Education Lecture Group of Peking University also gave speeches in factories and villages in Lugou Bridge, Changxindian, Tong County, etc., conducted social surveys, and understood the lower classes. Through the lecture activities, these young intellectuals initially perceived the hardships of workers and peasants and the backwardness of education, and understood that rural people are easy to understand the truth and easy to instill new thoughts. Deng Zhongxia was trained through lectures in Changxindian, which laid the foundation for his later leadership of the workers' movement.
Another important method of Marxists' practical orientation is to establish worker’s tutoring schools, worker’s night schools and literacy classes, and establish worker’s clubs. In this way, on the one hand, it is possible to instill the thoughts of scientific socialism into the working masses and discover and cultivate backbone members among the working masses. Through them, organize a large number of workers, laying the foundation for the establishment of unions and the leadership of workers' struggles. On the other hand, it is also conducive to the Marxists establishing close ties with their own class and participating in the actual struggle of workers. This method of running schools among workers is a form often used by the later party in leading the workers' movement. The 1920 International Labor Day commemoration is an important start for Chinese Marxists to move towards the workers' movement...



They took advantage of the situation to promote to workers the values of labor and the great role of the working class, exposing the evils of the capitalist system and calling on the working class to unite and struggle. In Shanghai, Chen Duxiu personally participated in and guided the joint meeting composed of seven industry groups such as the Chinese Industrial Association and the Chinese Trade Union Federation to jointly initiate the preparation of a May Day commemoration. At the commemoration, the speakers spoke about the sanctity of labor and the audience's emotions ran high. The resolutions made at the meeting were as follows: ① demand for an eight-hour workday; ② organization of real unions for workers; ③ union of workers from all industries. After the meeting, the seven groups issued a "Response to the Soviet Peasant Government", proposing "we will strive to create a new, beautiful, and eternally peaceful world for mankind, deciding to cooperate with you and bear this responsibility".
At the same time, similar commemorative events were also held in Beijing. On May 1, Peking University suspended classes for one day. More than 500 school workers and students held a commemorative meeting at Peking University. Li Dazhao attended the meeting and gave a speech. The Work-Study Mutual Aid Group took two cars for a parade in the east and west cities. Banner flying in front of the car, with the red words "labor is sacred" and "long live May 1", attracted particular attention. They chanted slogans such as "long live the workers", and distributed leaflets with "Declaration of Beijing Workers on May 1".
In addition to Shanghai and Beijing, workers and students in other places like Tangshan, Harbin, Jiujiang, Guangzhou, Shantou, and Zhangzhou also held commemorative activities. This was a large-scale movement combining Marxism with the Chinese labor movement. Cai Hesen commented: "The first May Day propaganda in China was very huge; the 'New Youth' issued up to 10,000 copies, so it had a great influence at the time and had spread all over the country."
Among early Marxists, Mao Zedong was also a model of practical attention and action. As early as the autumn of 1919, he established the Problem Research Association in Changsha. This society proposed to research topics on politics, economy, society, education, labor, and international affairs, as well as issues like how to unite people, the possibility of socialism, and the teachings of Confucius, totaling over 140. He often went deep into the lives of railway workers, construction workers, and porters to understand the situation, make friends, and establish workers' night schools and trade unions. To blend in with workers, Mao often discarded his long robe for short shirts, learned the language of the workers, understood their demands, and felt their lives.
Intellectuals promoting Marxism turned to practicality and went deep into the worker and peasant communities to carry out propaganda and organize work, promoting the integration of Marxism and the Chinese labor movement.



At the same time, their thoughts and feelings have also changed, gradually forming into vanguard soldiers with communist consciousness. The working and farming masses began to accept Marxism, from which emerged a group of advanced elements with communist ideals. In China, the conditions for establishing a Communist Party organization have matured. 



The spread of Marxism, its selection and gradual integration with the Chinese labor movement, and the emergence of a group of advanced communists naturally brought the issue of organizing a Chinese working-class party onto the agenda. Li Dazhao pointed out: "China currently lacks a group that truly represents the people's power, (If one faction of friends can establish a strong and rigorous organization and pay attention to promoting the training of its members, then China's thorough reform will have a reference point!" Cai Hesen clearly pointed out at the Montargney meeting of the New People's Society members studying in France: The proletarian revolutionary movement must "first organize the party - the Communist Party"; because the party "is the initiator, propagator, vanguard, and combat unit of the revolutionary movement"; with the party, the revolutionary movement and labor movement have a nerve center. This shows that the consensus of the Chinese avant-garde with communist beliefs has been established at that time.

Under the promotion of Li Dazhao, the Beijing University Marxist Research Society, established in March 1920, was the earliest Chinese group with the purpose of learning and researching Marxism. Most of its members were students from Peking University, mainly including Deng Zhongxia, Gao Junyu, Huang Rikui, Fan Hongjie, He Mengxiong, Li Jun, Zhu Wushan, Zhang Guozhu, Liu Renjing, and Luo Zhanglong, etc. The union of Marxist intellectuals aimed to establish the Communist Party. It was at this time that Voitinsky, a representative of the Communist International, came to China. His task was to understand the situation in China, establish contact with progressive forces in China, and investigate the possibility of establishing a Communist International East Asia Secretariat in Shanghai. After several talks with Li Dazhao and others, he expressed that he wanted to support and help the work of building a Communist Party in China. Introduced by Li Dazhao, Voitinsky met Chen Duxiu in Shanghai. Based on his investigations in Beijing and Shanghai, Voitinsky thought that the timing for establishing the party in China was ripe and suggested Chen Duxiu organize the Communist Party of China. This was in line with Chen Duxiu's intention. Chen Duxiu then introduced Voitinsky to meet Li Hanjun, the editor of the socialist propagating "Weekly Review". After several discussions, it was decided to establish a secret organization to prepare for the official establishment of the party. The Shanghai Marxist Research Society was established the same year in May, with Chen Duxiu as the person in charge, and members included Li Hanjun, Shen Xuanlu, Shao Lizhi, Chen Wangdao, Shi Cuntong, Yu Xiusong, Shen Yanbing, and Yang Mingzhai, etc.

Meanwhile, The Communist International also planned to establish an East Asian secretariat in Shanghai, including China, Korea, and Japan sectors, to guide the party building work in East Asian countries. Under Voitinsky's efforts, "the work of the China sector progressed smoothly. Relying on worker and student organizations, the sector has laid the groundwork for communist organizations in Beijing, Shanghai, Tianjin, Guangzhou, Hankou, Nanjing, and other places".



In August 1920, the Shanghai Communist Party organization was formally established, initiated by Chen Duxiu, Li Hanjun, Shen Xuanlu, Chen Wangdao, Yu Xiusong, Shi Cuntong (then in Japan), Yang Mingzhai, Li Da, and others. Upon its inception, this organization took on the task of establishing party organizations nationwide. Shortly after the establishment of the Shanghai party organization, Zhang Shenfu, a lecturer from Beijing Normal University, came to Shanghai to prepare for the arrival of British philosopher Bertrand Russell. In Chen Duxiu's home, they widely discussed issues about party establishment. They believed that those eligible to join the party should be absorbed into the party, and a Communist Party organization should be established in Beijing, headed by Li Dazhao. In late September, Zhang Shenfu returned to Beijing with Chen Duxiu's suggestions and discussed with Li Dazhao about party establishment. They unanimously agreed to promptly develop party members. At the beginning of October, Zhang Guozhu, who attended the National Student Federation's fund-raising activities, returned to Beijing and conveyed Chen Duxiu's views on party establishment in Beijing to Li Dazhao. Therefore, Li Dazhao, Zhang Shenfu, and Zhang Guozhu formally established the Beijing Communist Party organization in Li Dazhao's office. The Beijing Communist Party organization was the main base for propagating Marxism and cultivating revolutionary talents in northern China.

With the impetus of party organizations in Shanghai and Beijing, local Communist Party organizations sprung up everywhere. From the autumn and winter of 1920 to the first half of 1921, early Communist Party organizations were established successively by Dong Biwu, Chen Tanqiu and others in Wuhan; Chen Gongbo, Tan Pingshan and others in Guangzhou; Mao Zedong, He Shuheng and others in Changsha; Wang Jinmei, Deng Enming and others in Jinan; Shi Cuntong, Zhou Fohai and others in Japan; Zhang Shenfu, Zhao Shiyan, Chen Gongpei, Zhou Enlai and others in France. Different terms were used as the names of these early organizations in China. The organization in Shanghai was called the Communist Party of China from the very beginning, and that in Beijing was referred to as the "Beijing Branch of the Communist Party of China". All of them served as local organizations of the unified Communist Party of China that was subsequently formed, and they were then conventionally referred to as "communist groups". The members of these organizations were mostly advanced intellectuals who had grown up through the May Fourth Movement. Their understanding of Marxism and their observation of practical issues in China were deeper than that of other contemporary Chinese people. These local Communist Party organizations directly paved the way for the formal establishment of the Communist Party of China.

Under the guidance of the Communist International, the scattered local Communist Party organizations gradually came together to establish a unified Communist Party organization in China. In June 1921, the Secretary Bureau of the Irkutsk Communist International sent Maring and Nikolsky to Shanghai successively, suggesting early convening of a national congress to formally establish the Communist Party of China. Thereafter, Li Da notified party organizations nationwide to each select two representatives to attend the congress. On July 23, the first national congress of the Communist Party of China was officially held in Shanghai. Li Da, Li Hanjun, Zhang Guozhu, Liu Renjing, Mao Zedong, He Shuheng, Dong Biwu, Chen Tanqiu, Wang Jinmei, Deng Enming, Chen Gongbo, Zhou Fohai, Bao Huiseng and others, representing over fifty party members nationwide, attended the congress. Maring and Nikolsky also participated in the congress. Li Dazhao was unable to attend due to reasons. Chen Duxiu did not attend either, but he entrusted Bao Huiseng to propose a program stating that "the Communist Party should adhere to democratic centralism, believe in communism, realize the dictatorship of the proletariat and implement communism" to be discussed at the congress.



The convention passed the "First Program of the Communist Party of China," which stipulates: "The party is named the Communist Party of China. The party's program is: "Overthrow the power of the capitalist class," "Recognise the proletariat dictatorship," "Eliminate capitalist private ownership," and "Unite the Third International." The essence of the party's program is to carry out a socialist revolution and replace capitalism with communism.

As for the work arrangement after the party's establishment, there was fierce debate at the meeting. Li Hanjun and others believed that China's proletariat was too naive and did not understand Marxism. They advocated for uniting with advanced intellectuals to engage in research and promotion of Marxism. Most representatives disagreed with this opinion, believing that the party must focus its energy on social struggle and practical work. The first National Congress of the CPC decided to focus its work on the labor movement and made specific arrangements for all aspects of the party's work. This was reflected in the "First Resolution of the Communist Party of China" (hereinafter referred to as the "Resolution"). The "Resolution" stipulates that the basic task of the party is to establish trade unions, "wherever there is more than one industrial sector, a trade union should be organised," and "the party should instil the spirit of class struggle in the union." It emphasized the establishment of worker schools to increase worker awareness. In order to guide and promote the labor movement, due to the small number of party members and the lack of organization, the convention decided not to establish a central committee of the party temporarily and instead set up a central bureau to lead all party work. The meeting elected Chen Duxiu, Li Da, and Zhang Guozhu to form the Central Bureau, with Chen Duxiu as secretary of the Central Bureau, Li Da as propaganda commissioner, and Zhang Guozhu as organization commissioner.

The establishment of the Communist Party of China was a groundbreaking event in Chinese history. It demonstrated that China now had a new type of unified workers' party with communism as its goal and Marxism as its guide of action. Although the party was weak when it was founded, it actually represented the development requirements of China's advanced productive forces, represented the direction of China's advanced culture, and could become the most trusted leadership force and strong core of the Chinese people.

The party's program formulated by the First National Congress of the Communist Party of China, although it still lacks understanding of the particularities of Chinese society and the Chinese revolution, generally copied the articles of the party's program of the proletariat party in capitalist countries. However, its essence reflects the basic principles of Marxism on the proletariat revolution, which signifies that the Communist Party of China has established the guiding position of Marxism in the entire party's work as soon as it was established. Theoretically speaking, the basic principles of Marxism must be combined with Chinese reality, which was also recognised among early Marxists in China. As previously stated, in Li Dazhao's article "On the Issue and Doctrine Again" published in August 1919, he pointed out: "A socialist must study how his ideas can be applied to the surrounding reality to make his doctrine have some impact in the world." Liu Renjing stated in a letter to Zuo Daying in December 1920: our current task is to "find a policy that is suitable for the national conditions and can achieve communism." Although the idea is clear, to truly achieve the combination of "doctrine" and "reality," to find a "policy that is suitable for the national conditions and can achieve communism," is not something that the First National Congress of the Communist Party of China could achieve. It must go through a long period of struggle and repeated victories and failures, continuously summing up the experience and lessons of practical struggle, in order to achieve this.



Within a year of the founding of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP), through studying and mastering Marxism and carrying out revolutionary struggles, they began to develop a deeper understanding of the international and domestic situations, the condition of Chinese society, and the fundamental issues of the Chinese revolution.
At that time, the key features of international and domestic situations were: imperialist nations were intensifying their aggression towards China, seeking further domination; conflicts and struggles among domestic warlords were becoming increasingly severe. Under such circumstances, various political forces proposed different solutions for China's way out. Among the ruling classes, the Beiyang warlords in control of the central government advocated "military unification", while local warlords in various provinces demanded "autonomy" or "provincial autonomy". These two opposing views both sought to protect the self-interests of various warlords, and could not solve any of China's problems. Among the bourgeoisie, some reformers represented by Hu Shi advocated establishing a "good person government", thinking that it was not necessary to oppose imperialism or overthrow warlord rule; as long as there were so-called "good person" entering the government, China could be saved. As for how these "good person" could enter the government, and whether they could make a difference after entering, were questions they could not answer. Although Sun Yat-sen still adhered to the revolutionary position of democracy, he could not propose a revolutionary program capable of mobilizing mass struggles. In November 1920, after the KMT forces expelled the Guangxi clique from Guangdong, Sun Yat-sen returned to Guangzhou from Shanghai and raised the banner of the "Constitution Protection". In April 1921, Sun Yat-sen was elected as the Extraordinary President of the Republic of China by the extraordinary congress held in Guangdong. He planned to launch the Northern Expedition based in Guangdong with the military support of Chen Jiongming. Despite Chen being a KMT member who outwardly supported Sun's initiative and claimed to follow socialism, he secretly accepted the provocation of imperialists, colluding with the Beiyang warlords, and launched an armed rebellion in June 1922, ultimately revealing his reactionary nature as a tool of imperialism. Sun was forced to leave Guangzhou and his Constitution Protection Movement completely failed. 
Where is China going? What's the future of the Chinese nation? Many patriotic individuals were distressed, bewildered, and worried about these questions. It was at this time that the young Communist Party of China, initially combining the basic principles of Marxism-Leninism with the reality of the Chinese revolution, proposed a program for the Chinese democratic revolution. 
When the Chinese Communists, with the belief of overthrowing the dark rule of reactionary classes and striving for socialism, plunged themselves into actual struggles, they quickly found that, under semi-colonial and semi-feudal conditions, what the Chinese people urgently required was not the immediate transformation to a socialist revolution. Because foreign capital controlled most of China's modern industry, whether it was the increasingly intense strikes in Shanghai, Changsha, and Hong Kong, or the workers' movements in other cities, it all inevitably clashed with imperialism and, to varying degrees, opposed imperialism.



Even the economic struggle of workers demanding improved living conditions can easily transform into a political struggle against imperialism and the warlord government. Imperialist forces and feudal warlords always collude, going to great lengths to destroy and suppress these mass struggles with violent means. The Chinese Communists came to understand in the course of actual struggles that if the Chinese Revolution did not first wage a struggle against imperialist aggression and the rule of feudal warlords, the country could not be independent, the people could not be liberated, and there would be no discussion of realizing the ideals of socialism and communism. Therefore, the Chinese Communist Party and the Chinese Bourgeoisie Democrats share some common points in the goals of the revolutionary struggle. This further understanding of the basic problems of the Chinese Revolution, which arises from practical experience, propels the Chinese Communist Party to establish realistic struggle objectives and corresponding strategies in order to realize the socialist ideal.

During the exploration and establishment of a revolutionary program suitable to China's national conditions, the Chinese Communist Party received help and guidance from Lenin and the Communist International. This was of great importance in helping the party correctly grasp the direction of the Chinese Revolution.

During this period, on the one hand, the party explored the basic problems of the Chinese Revolution through revolutionary practice, and on the other hand, accepted Lenin’s theories on national and colonial issues. These two facets were gradually being integrated, leading to the development of a revolutionary program that was largely consistent with China's national conditions.

The party first advocated for anti-imperialist and anti-feudal political views to labor unions and youth organizations. The first national labor conference held in May 1922 and the first representative assembly of the Chinese Socialist Youth League accepted the political slogan proposed by the Chinese Communist Party to "overthrow imperialism" and "overthrow the warlords". On June 15, 1922, the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China issued "The Standpoint of the Communist Party of China on the Current Situation". These documents emphasized the post-Xinhai Revolution period, analyzing the history and current status of the international imperialist and Chinese feudal military clique colluding to oppress the Chinese people, pointing out that imperialist aggression and warlord politics are the root causes of China's external and internal troubles, as well as the root cause of people's suffering. They criticized the reactionary propositions spread by the feudal military cliques on the question of the current situation and the erroneous ideas held by bourgeois reformists, pointing out that the key to solving the problem of the current situation is to overthrow imperialism and the feudal military clique with revolutionary measures and establish democratic politics. The documents also pointed out that in order to fulfill the proletariat's most urgent tasks, the Chinese Communist Party advocates the establishment of a democratic united front with revolutionary parties such as the Kuomintang and other revolutionary groups, opposing common enemies, and freeing the Chinese people from the dual oppression of imperialism and the feudal military clique.

This was the first time that the Chinese Communist Party announced its political views on major issues of the Chinese Democratic Revolution to all walks of life. It was also a new starting point for the party to use Marxism-Leninism to analyze the social conditions in China and solve the problems of the Chinese Revolution. It laid the foundation for completing the party’s historical mission to formulate the party's democratic revolutionary program at the party's second national congress. From July 16th to July 23rd, 1922, the Chinese Communist Party held its second national congress in Shanghai. The "Declaration of the Second National Congress of the Communist Party of China" passed by the Second National Congress of the Communist Party is a document of great historical significance. It analyzes the history of capitalist, imperialist powers' invasion of China and China's evolution into a semi-colonial, semi-feudal society. It emphasizes that "Various facts prove that the greatest pain inflicted on the Chinese people (whether bourgeois workers or peasants) is the feudal forces of capitalist imperialism and warlord bureaucrats. Therefore, the democratic revolutionary movement against those two forces is of great significance. That is to say, with the success of the democratic revolution, independence and comparative freedom can be achieved." Based on the analysis of the international and domestic situation and the nature of Chinese society, the declaration proposed that under current historical conditions, the party's struggle goal is: to eliminate civil war, overthrow warlords, and build domestic peace; overthrow the oppression of international imperialism and achieve complete independence of the Chinese nation; unify China into a truly democratic republic.



This actually lays out the Party's current stage of the anti-imperialist and anti-feudal democratic revolutionary program, i.e., the Party's minimum program. The declaration also pointed out: The purpose of the Party is to "organize the proletariat, use the means of class struggle, establish the dictatorship of the proletariat, eradicate the private property system, and gradually achieve a communist society". This shows that the second declaration of the CCP has adhered to the ultimate struggle goal of the Party as stipulated by the first program, that is, the Party's maximum program.
The second declaration of the CCP initially clarifies the nature, object, dynamics, strategy, tasks, and goals of the current stage of the Chinese revolution, indicating the future of the Chinese revolution. This is: the nature of the revolution is a democratic revolution; the object of the revolution is imperialism and feudal warlords; the power of the revolution is the workers, peasants, and small bourgeoisie, and the national bourgeoisie is also one of the forces of the revolution; the strategy is to form a united front of all classes. The tasks and goals are to overthrow the warlords, overthrow the oppression of international imperialism, realize the independence and unification of the Chinese nation; the future of the revolution is to transition to socialist revolution.
The second party congress for the first time linked the Party's goals in the democratic revolution with the long-term goals of the future socialist revolution, not only clearly put forward the tasks of the democratic revolution against imperialism and feudalism, and pointed out that it is necessary to further create conditions through the democratic revolution. Realize socialism and communism. This is a deepening of the understanding of the situation in China and the problem of the Chinese revolution by the Chinese Communists. It is an important result of the Party's combination of the basic principles of Marxism with the reality of the Chinese revolution. It points the way for the heavily afflicted Chinese nation to obtain independence and liberation and for the correct conduct of the Chinese revolution. From the First National Congress of the Party deciding to directly carry out the socialist revolution, to the Second National Congress of the CPC deciding to first carry out the democratic revolution and then carry out the socialist revolution, this is a major change in the Party's strategic policy.
The Second National Congress of the Party made a preliminary analysis of the specific connection between the democratic revolution and the socialist revolution. The second declaration of the CCP pointed out: "If the democratic revolution succeeds, the proletariat only obtains some freedom and rights, and cannot be fully liberated. Moreover, the success of democracy, the naïve bourgeoisie will quickly develop and be in opposition to the proletariat. Therefore, the proletariat must deal with the bourgeoisie and implement the 'dictatorship of the proletariat in alliance with the poor peasants' as the second step of struggle. If the organizational power and fighting power of the proletariat are strong, this second step of struggle can succeed immediately after the victory of the democratic revolution." There are two possibilities for the future of the democratic revolution as estimated by the Chinese Communists: one is that if the power of the proletariat is greatly developed in the democratic revolution, the socialist revolution of the dictatorship of the proletariat can be implemented immediately after the victory of the democratic revolution; the other is that after the victory of the democratic revolution, the bourgeoisie "seized power from the feudal lords", and the proletariat can implement the second step of struggle after a long period of strengthening its own power. At that time, the young Chinese Communists had just launched the labour movement and lacked revolutionary experience. Some people, influenced by the historical experience of bourgeois revolutions in Europe and America, consider more the latter possibility for the future of the democratic revolution. Some people, starting from the historical experience of the February Revolution to the October Revolution in Russia, are considering the former possibility of developing quickly from the democratic revolution to the socialist revolution. However, in China, a semi-colonial and semi-feudal country with complex national conditions, they do not yet have a clear understanding of how to reach this future through what path.
The program of a political party is its banner...



The revolutionary program proposed at the Second Party Congress embodies the ultimate aspiration of the proletarian party in its struggle towards communism, while also for the first time explicitly articulates the party's current tactical policy and revolutionary mission, namely to carry out a democratic revolution against imperialism and feudalism. A mere year after the founding of the Chinese Communist Party, it was able to start to grasp the relationship between the minimum and maximum program, emerging from the specific conditions in China. This demonstrates that only the Chinese Communist Party, led by Marxism and aligning it with the realities of the Chinese revolution, can scientifically analyze the current state of Chinese society, reflect the desires and demands of Chinese people, point out the correct direction for the Chinese revolution, and shoulder the historical responsibility of leading it. 

To implement the party's democratic revolutionary program, nine resolutions were passed at the Second Party Congress. The Assembly passed a resolution on a "Democratic United Front," calling for workers and peasants across the country to struggle under the banner of the Communist Party. At the same time, it proposed to unite with all revolutionary parties in the country, join forces with the bourgeoisie democrats, and arrange a democratic united front. It also decided to invite revolutionary groups such as the Kuomintang to hold joint meetings to discuss specific methods. This thus changed the provisions in the Party’s first Congress documents about not establishing any connections with other parties, thereby proposing for the first time the party's thoughts and assertions on a united front. This has significant implications for advancing the development of the Chinese revolution. 

Second, the basic ideas of the Chinese revolution have begun to form. The May Thirtieth Movement that erupted in 925 marked the coming of a high tide in the revolution. The political attitudes of all classes in Chinese society also fully manifested during the movement, and contradictions over power struggle within the revolutionary united front became increasingly evident. The vivid and rich revolutionary practice provided communists with many new experiences, and the complex revolutionary struggles raised many new problems without ready answers to the communists: What is the nature and future development of the Chinese revolution? How should the proletariat treat its allies—the national bourgeoisie, urban petty bourgeoisie, peasants, etc? How can the proletariat achieve its leadership in the national revolution? Before and after the May Thirtieth Movement, party leaders such as Chen Duxiu, Li Dazhao, Qu Qiubai, Mao Zedong, Cai Hesen, Deng Zhongxia, Zhou Enlai, and Xing Daiying, based on timely summarizing the experiences of revolutionary practices, made wide-ranging discussions on these issues, thereby elevating the party's understanding of key issues of the Chinese Revolution to a new level.

The party's understanding of the nature and future of the Chinese revolution has undergone a gradual process of intensification. The second party congress clearly stated that the nature of the Chinese revolution is a bourgeois democratic revolution against imperialism and feudal warlords, and its future is socialism. In May 1923, Cai Hesen wrote that the nature of the Chinese revolutionary movement was different from the bourgeois democratic revolution in Europe and America, "It is no longer purely a problem of bourgeois democratic revolution, in fact, it has become a problem of national revolution (also called a national revolution)."

After the May Thirtieth Movement, Communists made further discussions on the issue of the nature of the revolution. Mao Zedong pointed out that the bourgeois revolutions in Europe, America and Japan "are revolutions of the bourgeoisie class," "their purpose is to build a nationalistic state or a state governed by the bourgeoisie," while the national revolution in China "is a revolution collaborated by the petty bourgeoisie, semi-proletariat, and proletariat," "its purpose is to build a state governed by cooperative revolutionary masses." Qu Qiubai believed that during the era of imperialism, or the beginning of the social revolution, the so-called national revolution among the weak nationalities in the colonies, "must contain the seeds of the proletariat revolution." Because this kind of revolution "internationally, is just a part of the world proletariat revolution; within a country, although it is still bourgeoisie in nature, the revolutionary forces are largely supported by the proletariat."



Although the communists had not yet proposed the concept of the New Democratic Revolution at that time, they had begun to distinguish this revolution from past democratic revolutions based on fundamental issues such as the conditions of the times, the leading forces of the revolution, and the goals of the struggle. This provided the ideological conditions for the party to later explicitly propose the theory of the New Democratic Revolution.

On the issue of the future of the Chinese revolution, mainly the relationship between democratic revolution and socialist revolution, the party's Fourth Congress believed that after the October Revolution, the "Chinese national revolution movement" was a "part of the broad world revolution" and was associated with the "movement to overthrow world capitalism to establish communism." After the May 30th movement, Qu Qiubai pointed out: although the democratic revolution is bourgeois, its victory will not belong to the bourgeoisie. If the revolution is led by the bourgeoisie, it will soon compromise with the enemy. He further pointed out: It is now the era of imperialism and the beginning of the socialist revolution, therefore, "naive private capitalism in the colonies of weak nations has no need or possibility for further development." It can plan and develop the economy through the state organized by working workers, progressing gradually towards socialism. He repeatedly proposed that China's democratic revolution is the "first step towards communism." While Qu Qiubai correctly emphasized the proletariat's leadership responsibility for China's revolution and its non-capitalist future, he made two mistakes: one was to deny the strategic thought that the Chinese revolution takes two steps, thus confusing the boundaries between the democratic revolution and the socialist revolution; the other was to interpret the non-capitalist future as the immediate abolition of the private capitalist economic component, proposing anti-bourgeois tasks during the democratic revolution stage.

In the democratic revolution, how to understand and treat the bourgeoisie is a complex issue. Communists' understanding of this issue gradually improved and deepened. The party's First Congress believed that all bourgeoisie was the object of revolution; the party's Second Congress believed that the democratic bourgeoisie was a force that could be united; the party's Third Congress to some extent recognized the ambivalent nature of most of China's bourgeoisie; by the party's Fourth Congress it clearly pointed out that China's bourgeoisie was divided into the counter-revolutionary "big commercial comprador class" and the "emerging national industrial bourgeoisie." During the May 30th movement, the national bourgeoisie initially played an important role in the anti-imperialist struggle, but later it wavered and compromised, fully demonstrating its dual nature in politics, thus providing objective conditions for Communists to carry out a more in-depth analysis of this class.

On this issue, Mao Zedong made an excellent exposition in his Analysis of All classes in Chinese Society published on December 1, 1925. He pointed out in the article that the middle class held a "contradictory attitude" towards the revolution. They needed and supported a revolutionary movement against imperialism and the warlords when they felt the pain inflicted by foreign capital and military oppression. However, when they felt threatened by the emerging bravery of the domestic proletarians and the active support of the international proletariat, which could hinder their desire to reach the status of the big bourgeoisie, they began to doubt the revolution. Their right wing would soon side with the imperialists and the warlords when the revolutionary struggle was intensified and would become excellent partners with the comprador class. The left wing of the middle class could be somewhat revolutionary at times, but it was prone to compromise and could not last. Therefore, we can treat them as our friends, but "we must always guard against them and not allow them to disrupt our front."

Having such an understanding is crucial. In the situation of the Kuomintang-Communist cooperation in launching the Great Revolution, it is necessary to actively unite the national bourgeoisie to join the revolution and also to fight against the possible waver and compromise of the national bourgeoisie. For the young Communist Party of China, this is an insoluble contradiction. Many communists do not understand that as long as the proletariat firmly holds the political leadership of the national revolutionary movement, it can push a part, or even most, of the national bourgeoisie to persist in joining the revolution, but one must always be on guard against possible disturbances that can disrupt the front of the revolution.




Mao Zedong's analysis of the national bourgeoisie objectively reflected the actual situation of class struggle at that time, providing an important theoretical basis for the party to later deepen its understanding and correctly handle relations with the national bourgeoisie.

The peasant issue is another important issue in the Chinese revolution. Even before the Fourth Communist Party Congress, the party had recognized the important role of peasants in the revolution. The Fourth Congress of the Party affirmed that peasants are allies of the proletariat. The "Resolution on the Unification of Workers and Peasants" passed at the Second National Labor Conference in May 1925 viewed guiding peasants to participate in the democratic revolution and establishing a solid alliance with them as a guarantee for the success of the democratic revolution. The painful experience of the working class being isolated due to the wavering and compromising of the national bourgeoisie in the later period of the May 30th Movement further proves that the rise of the peasant struggle is an indispensable condition for the success of the National Revolution, and peasants are the most reliable allies of the working class.

The May 30 Movement furthered many communists' understanding of the role of peasants in the democratic revolution and the importance of establishing a worker-peasant alliance. In October 1925, the enlarged meeting of the Central Executive Committee of the Chinese Communist Party proposed to include the solution of the peasant land issue in the political platform, believing that "the Chinese Communist Party should make the general democrats know that the expropriation of land is an inevitable policy and an important duty to complete the Xinhai Revolution." The meeting emphasized that only by forming a solid alliance with the peasants can the party fulfill its historical mission. After examining the economic conditions of Chinese peasants, Li Dazhao pointed out: “If the vast masses of Chinese peasants can be organized to participate in the National Revolution, the success of the Chinese National Revolution is not far off.” Chen Duxiu emphasized: Not only do Chinese workers need to expand and consolidate their own class face, but also urgently need the establishment of worker-peasant alliance... only in this way can they achieve preliminary victories in political and economic struggles.

From 1925, Mao Zedong led the peasant movement with his main energy and paid attention to the study of Chinese peasants. After the "Analysis of Various Classes in Chinese Society," he published "Analysis of Various Classes in Chinese Peasantry and their Attitude Towards Revolution" in the first issue of "Chinese Peasants" in January 1926, using Marxist class analysis for the first time. The rural inhabitants were divided into eight classes including large landlords, small landlords, tenant farmers, partial tenant farmers, beneficial farmers, poor peasants, hired peasants, rural artisans, and vagrants, and gave a more in-depth scientific analysis of the attitudes of each class towards revolution, initially forming a theory about rural class analysis. This lays an important foundation for the Chinese Communist Party to correctly understand the position and role of peasants in the democratic revolution and formulate correct policies towards peasants. In May 1926, the party led the convening of the second peasant representative conference in Guangdong Province, which specifically put forward the “Resolution on the Position of the Peasant Movement in the National Revolution,” pointing out: “The semi-colonial Chinese National Revolution is a peasant revolution,” “The peasant problem is a central issue in the national revolution. Whether the national revolution can progress and succeed must be transformed according to whether the peasant movement can progress and succeed.” Making the peasant issue the core issue of the National Revolution shows that the party has a deeper understanding of the important position of peasants in the Chinese revolution.

Before the Fourth Congress of the Party, Communists had discussed the issue of proletarian leadership to varying degrees. The Fourth Congress of the Party clearly raised the issue of proletariat leadership in the democratic revolution, but there was still a lack of understanding of the seriousness of the struggle for leadership between the bourgeoisie and the proletariat and the way to achieve proletariat leadership.

During the May 30 Movement, the Chinese working class once again fully demonstrated its power, while the bourgeoisie fully demonstrated its dual nature in the May 30 Movement. Subsequently, the right-wing of the Kuomintang intensified its attack on revolutionary forces.




These facts have led communists to further understand the importance of the proletariat vying for leadership with the bourgeoisie. Chen Duxiu pointed out when summarizing the experience of the May 30th Movement: The May 30th Movement was indeed a national struggle of all classes in unity, but the actual direct confrontations with imperialism took place among the striking workers in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Hankou, Jiujiang, Nanjing, Qingdao, Tianjin, Jiaozuo, and other places. Other members of society simply provided support to the workers, so while we cannot exaggerate and say that Chinese workers are the only force present in the Chinese Revolution, we must admit that they are an important and reliable power. The compromising and hesitant attitude of the bourgeoisie allowed the imperialists and warlords to take advantage of the situation. Liu Shaoqi pointed out: "The working class made the greatest sacrifice in the 'May 30th' anti-imperialist movement, advocated the most radical, fought the most persistently, and their power was also very strong. In various struggles, It proves that the leading role of the working class in the National Revolutionary Movement is unshakable. The Chinese bourgeoisie were originally oppressed by imperialism and warlords. They could potentially participate in the National Revolution, but the participation of the bourgeoisie in the National Revolution is ultimately compromising and can't be thorough." Qu Qiubai believed that the weakness and concession of the bourgeoisie during the May 30th Movement led to the setback of the strike struggle. The compromise of the bourgeoisie and the hesitation of the petty bourgeoisie were enough to prove the necessity of the proletariat to take the leading role in the National Revolution.

On the issue of the proletariat vying for leadership with the bourgeoisie, the communists put forward an important point of view: This vying can't be limited to mass movements, the question of political power should also be valued. Deng Zhongxia clearly pointed out: "We join the National Revolution to seize power..." but "political power is not flown into the hands of workers from outside, we have to gradually obtain it from practical political struggle." He particularly emphasized: "If we don't take political power, the bourgeoisie will"; only if the proletariat's political status and power grow and strengthen every day can we "prevent the compromise and softening of the bourgeoisie in the revolution and prevent them from monopolizing power after the revolution", and prepare for the future establishment of a workers' government. Zhou Enlai pointed out: "Workers are the leaders of the National Revolution and should lead farmers and soldiers in a grand union to overthrow imperialism.” In July 1926, under the severe situation of the intensified anti-communism of the new and old right-wing of the Kuomintang, the expanded meeting of the Central Committee of the Party pointed out in the "Resolution on the Relationship Between the Communist Party of China and the Kuomintang": "Our strategy in the National Revolution should be more clearly defined: On the one hand, our party should intensify its political independence and establish its power among the workers and the majority of peasants, and gain political influence among the revolutionary general public; on the other hand, it should organize these revolutionary currents of the petty bourgeoisie and gather them in the Kuomintang, to enrich its left-wing, and influence the Kuomintang with the revolutionary power of the proletariat and the peasants—this way we can form a strong struggle alliance with the leftist Kuomintang to compete with the bourgeoisie for the leadership of the national movement. Only this can guarantee the proletarian party's struggle for leadership in the National Revolution." These statements show that under the education of facts, the understanding of the leadership of the proletariat by the Chinese Communists has deepened compared to the past, and has moved from generally discussing the struggle for leadership with the bourgeoisie, to how to capture the political guiding position within the Kuomintang.

Regarding the issue of armed struggle, which is the main form of struggle in the Chinese Revolution, the party also made new progress in understanding at this time. Previously, the communists criticized the Kuomintang for focusing solely on military work and neglecting the mass movement, but they often focused solely on the mass movement and neglected military work. In the process of unifying the revolutionary base in Guangdong, the Party began to focus on carrying out soldiers' movements and strengthening propaganda work for warlord troops in order to promote their division and attract a portion to lean towards the revolution.



In June 1925, Zhou Enlai pointed out during his return journey from the Eastern Expedition that the army is a tool, "the oppressors use this tool to oppress people," and the oppressed class "can also use this tool to resist their oppressors and overthrow the power of the oppressors". In terms of overthrowing imperialism and feudal warlords, "the army is the vanguard to implement our theory."

The Party also began to realize the importance of arming the workers and peasants. After the start of the Guangdong-Hong Kong strike, the communists saw the important role of the workers' patrol team in the struggle to consolidate the Guangdong revolutionary base, and regarded it as the vanguard of the Chinese nation against imperialism. In October 1925, the enlarged meeting of the Central Executive Committee of the Communist Party of China discussed the issue of arming the working class, proposing to organize and prepare the bravest and most loyal members of the armed working class.

On the importance of armed struggle and the revolutionary army during the National Revolution, Qu Qiubai provided a systematic explanation in his article "The Issue of Armed Struggle in the Chinese Revolution". He pointed out that the Chinese people have been fighting in forms of demonstration, boycott, and strike, "however, starting from the 'May 4th', 'February 27th', 'May 30th', 'March 18th' and the Guangzhou War, the revolutionary turbulence has been spiraling and advancing, using various forms of struggle, it has come to the prepared period of armed direct warfare, and it is approaching the time of a desperate war." "Especially in this period, revolutionary war is the main form," all other forms are directly or indirectly preparing for the revolutionary war. Qu Qiubai pointed out: "The Chinese national revolution is extremely in need of a formal revolutionary army," grassroots civilian armed forces and armed uprisings, are always difficult to defeat powerful enemies, the workers, peasants, and petty bourgeoisie must be organized and trained to form a formal revolutionary army. He said: "Politically, with the revolutionary party of the people as the main body, and militarily, with the formal revolutionary army as the main body, engaged in revolutionary combat...only then will the Chinese common people have the hope of thorough liberation." This early party article specifically addresses the issue of armed struggle, and has not only served as a propaganda for the forthcoming Northern Expedition, but also made a pioneering theoretical contribution to the party's exploration of the Chinese revolutionary road.

The above discussions have initially formed the basic thinking of the Chinese Communist Party on the Chinese revolution, which is: the proletariat leads the peasants and other petty bourgeoisie, wins over a part of the national bourgeoisie, carries out democratic revolutionary struggles against imperialism and feudalism, overturns the reactionary rule of imperialism and the big landlord class represented by the warlord regime, and establishes a joint dictatorship of all revolutionary classes; under the international and domestic historical conditions in China, the national bourgeoisie's attempt to lead this revolution to victory and establish a bourgeois dictatorship is not feasible; this revolution, as a part of the world proletarian revolution, will prepare conditions for China to move towards a socialist revolution. These ideas were proposed by many important members of the Chinese Communist Party at that time in their individual explorations. Although there are still uncertain and incomplete aspects, and the understanding between each other is not completely consistent, they are the precious results of the Chinese Communists' efforts to apply Marxism to Chinese conditions, and have a significant pioneering significance for the later formation of the theory of the New Democratic Revolution.



The victorious advance of the Northern Expedition and the vigorous development of the workers' and peasants' movement led to a sharp intensification of contradictions and struggles within the revolutionary camp, bringing great changes to the political and military situation in the South and even the whole country. During this period, The Communist International, The United Communist Party (Bolshevik) and their representatives in China put forward some principles which were correct in principle, which provided a lot of useful guidance for the Chinese Communist Party. However, due to their lack of vigilance about the danger of people like Chiang Kai-shek betraying the revolution, they adopted a wrong policy in handling their relations with Chiang Kai-shek, Wang Jingwei and Tang Shengzhi, which had a negative impact on the decision-making of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China. The most concentrated expression of this was the formation and development of Chen Duxiu's rightist mistake.




In the context of the revolution making great strides forward, the issue of revolutionary power prominently emerged in front of the party. The deepening of urban and rural worker-peasant movements has prompted changes in the power of many counties. In Hunan Province, some counties established county affairs meetings or public law group joint meetings, with participants including representatives from county farmers' associations, county unions, and other revolutionary mass organizations. Although they did not elect the county leader themselves, the existing county leaders had to listen to the opinions of the various mass organizations, effectively creating a situation where mass organizations jointly held power. In some counties in Jiangxi Province, due to the support of the masses, communists were serving as county leaders. In terms of provincial power, Communists Dong Biwu participated in the leadership of the Hubei provincial government, Lin Zuhang and Li Fuchun participated in the Jiangxi Provincial Political Committee. Communist members and worker-peasant representatives' participation in revolutionary power is a new development in the victorious advancement of the Northern Expedition.

Although the participation of communists in the revolutionary power has become a necessity for further development of the revolution, the Central Party's understanding of this issue was behind the situation, and there were misunderstandings. In September 1926, Tan Pingshan, delegated by the Communist Party of China Central Committee to attend the 7th enlarged session of the Comintern Executive Committee, asked the Comintern: Can communists participate in the government? However, before the Comintern responded, the Central Committee issued directives within the Party, severely criticizing and stopping local communists from participating in the government, emphasizing that at the stage of the national revolution, the Communist Party must stand in the position of the opposition party, and should thoroughly maintain an independent opposition attitude.

The policy of maintaining the status of the opposition party adopted by the Central Committee, on one hand, is directly related to the erroneous idea that has always existed in the party that regards the mass movement as higher than everything and regards participation in the government as a hunt for official positions. Influenced by this idea, the central government proposed to strictly ban the tendency to seize official positions in the party, and ordered communist members who served as county chiefs in Jiujiang, Yongxiu, etc. to resign immediately, emphasizing that "From now on, our manpower should all be used on the masses, do not join the government work." On the other hand, more importantly, the Party as a whole, especially the main leader Chen Duxiu, did not have a clear understanding of how to transition from the democratic revolution to socialism. 

In July 1926, the second enlarged meeting of the Central Executive Committee passed the "Central Political Report", which defined the "construction of national capitalism" as the "future" that the "National Revolutionary Movement" should strive for. In September, Chen Duxiu's article "Why Are We Fighting Now?" stated that this future would be achieved when the victory "belonged to the national government, the national army", and "Only by then, the real Capitalism in China can develop freely." The article made it clear that during the National Revolutionary period, there would be no situation where the Communist Party would strive for power, and thought that "the Communist Party gaining power is a matter of the proletarian revolution era." At the end of 1926, the Chinese Communist Central Committee initially understood the meaning of participating in power and decided that Communist members "should strive to join the provincial governments". After the 7th enlarged meeting of the Comintern Executive Committee explicitly proposed the requirement for communist members to join government agencies, the Chinese Communist Central Committee further understood the necessity and urgency of participating in power, and successively dispatched Tan Pingshan and Su Zhaozheng to join the work of the Nationalist Government and local governments. However, due to the rapid deterioration of the situation, they actually did not play a significant role.

Chen Duxiu and the majority of leaders of the Chinese Communist Central Committee did not give enough attention to the establishment of armed forces directly led by the Communist Party. Before the start of the Northern Expedition, there were about 2,000 Communist Party members and Communist Youth League members among the graduates of the Huangpu Military Academy; a large number of workers and farmers in Hunan, Hubei, and Jiangxi obtained a large number of guns and ammunition from the defeated enemy forces and urgently requested to arm themselves; many officers of the National Revolutionary Army also invited the Communist Party to send people to assist in their work. However, Chen Duxiu opposed taking advantage of these favorable conditions to strive to develop the revolutionary armed forces directly controlled by the party.



After the start of the Northern Expedition, the Communist Party of China Central Committee decided to send fewer Communists to study at the Whampoa Military Academy, and comrades who were engaged in labor and peasant movements "absolutely should not be allowed to abandon their work to go to" the military academy. The Central Committee also required Communist Party members and Communist Youth League members who were engaged in political work in the National Army to "only pay attention to political propaganda matters, and not to interfere in military and administrative affairs." Therefore, not only did the party not establish more directly controlled regular armed forces during the Northern Expedition, but it also did not consolidate and develop the considerable amount of existing worker-peasant armed forces.

As the Northern Expedition progressed, the dangerous tendencies within the National Revolutionary United Front became increasingly apparent. Facing a complex and volatile situation, the Chinese Communist Party faced difficulties: on one hand, the task of overthrowing the Beiyang warlords was still not fully completed; on the other hand, contradictions within the revolutionary camp began to stand out. How to handle these complex external and internal contradictions, deal with betrayals and surprise attacks from allies, has become an urgent problem to be solved. For the inexperienced Communist Party members, this was indeed a big challenge.

In order to analyze the various dangerous tendencies that emerged within the National Revolutionary United Front and to formulate the party's strategic struggle, the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China convened a special meeting in Hankou in mid-December 1926. Representatives from the Communist International, Vevyensky and Borodin, attended the meeting. In Chen Duxiu's political report, he pointed out that since the victory on the Jiangxi battlefield, our relationship with the Kuomintang has undergone many new changes and revealed many dangerous tendencies, which may cause the united front to rupture at any time. 

While the report analyzes the causes of this danger and acknowledges the rightist tendencies of the KMT and Chiang Kai-shek’s rightist actions despite leftist rhetoric, it does not provide any effective solutions to the problem. Instead, it focuses on criticizing the so-called "left-leaning" within the party, such as looking down on the Kuomintang, taking control of the KMT, monopolizing the mass movement, denying the existence of the left, misunderstanding the independence of the party, and being unwelcoming towards small and medium-sized merchants, etc. 

The settlement for the "Resolution on the Kuomintang Left-Wing Issue" passed at the conference stipulates that we should assist the KMT left-wing from all aspects, make it a strong political force, and fight against the reactionary tendencies of the right-wing forces. The resolution believes that although the KMT's left is weak and wavering, we should still unite with them and support them. This is actually placing all hopes of fighting the right wing on the KMT's left-wing, not only advocating for the party and political power of the Kuomintang to be handed over to them, but even the mass movement that has always been under the leadership of the Communist Party should also be given to them.

The policies proposed by this meeting to save the crisis are not based on the foundation of consolidating and strengthening the power of the Communist Party itself, and are not well-prepared for sudden changes in both spirit and actual work. Instead, they place all hope on Wang Jingwei and other Kuomintang military generals, hoping to seek unity by conceding. This inevitably led to serious consequences at the crucial moment when the situation was suddenly reversed in the future.




This policy has objectively resulted in two consequences: On one hand, it has spread harmful illusions among the masses, giving the impression that Chiang Kai-shek, who seems well-prepared for battle, may have a change of heart and shift from right to left; it also seems that Wang Jingwei, who is notably weak and opportunistic, could form a powerful left-wing group and undertake the significant task of completing the National Revolutionary. On the other hand, it poured cold water on the raging worker-peasant revolutionary movement, dampening the enthusiasm of the masses and suppressing mass movements. This policy, in essence, sacrifices the fundamental interests of the working and peasant masses to accommodate the right-wing of the Kuomintang, providing convenience for Chiang Kai-shek and Wang Jingwei to seize the leadership of the Kuomintang.
 
The Hankou Special Conference failed to solve the extremely important issue of how the Party could survive and continue to fight in the imminent crisis; instead, it guided the party in the wrong direction, and gradually developed the right-leaning errors within the party into right opportunism. The decisions of this conference were approved by the Central Political Bureau and the Joint Meeting of Representatives of the Communist International. This is an important subjective factor leading to the failure of the great revolution.


First, a significant progress in understanding the basic problems of the Chinese Revolution

After the failure of the Great Revolution, the domestic political situation underwent a huge reversal. The counter-revolutionary forces have far surpassed the organized revolutionary forces led by the Communist Party. The nationwide revolutionary climax has passed, and the revolutionary situation has entered a low ebb.

The failure of the Great Revolution showed that the leadership of the party, the united front, and armed struggle are the basic issues of the Chinese Revolution. Only by correctly understanding and solving these problems can we promote the development of the revolutionary cause and achieve final success. The harsh reality has deeply educated the Chinese Communist Party.

In order to review and correct the serious mistakes of the party during the late period of the Great Revolution, and determine the new line and policy, the CPC Central Committee convened an emergency meeting in Hankou, Hubei on August 7, 1927 (the "August 7th Meeting"). At the conference, Communist International Representative Romagniaz made reports and conclusions on the past mistakes of the party and the new line. Qu Qiubai, representing the Standing Committee of the Central Committee, reported on the future work guidelines. Many party members criticized the right-leaning mistakes the Central Committee made in dealing with the Kuomintang issues, peasant land issues, armed struggle issues, and other aspects. Some party members also criticized some mistakes made by the Soviet advisors and representatives of the Communist International.

The meeting adopted papers such as "A Letter to All Party Members from the Executive Committee of the Communist Party of China", demanding resolute correction of past mistakes by the party and calling on a large number of party members and revolutionary masses to continue the fight. The meeting pointed out that during the late period of the Great Revolution, the Central Committee, led by Chen Duxiu, made grave errors of right opportunism and other mistakes, such as fully abandoning the independent political stance of the Communist Party in dealing with the Kuomintang, implementing a policy of compromise and concessions; in terms of the revolutionary armed forces, the Central Committee never thought about the necessity of arming the workers and peasants, and creating a truly revolutionary worker-peasant army, and even actively ordered the dissolution of the Worker's Patrol Team; the Central Committee did not actively support and lead the peasant revolutionary movement, and was influenced by the fear of the leaders of the Kuomintang and could not put forward a revolutionary action plan to solve the land issue; the Central Committee was not subject to the supervision of the masses and lacked democratic life within the party. The letter to all party members announced: "Our party openly admits and corrects mistakes, without ambiguity or concealment, this is not a sign of weakness, but a proof of the strength of the Chinese Communist movement."



The conference summarized the lessons from the failure of the Great Revolution, discussed the tasks of the Party, and established the approach to implement the Land Revolution and Armed Uprising. 
On the Land Revolution, according to the instructions of the Communist International and in line with the spirit of "the Chinese Revolution steps into a new stage - the stage of Land Revolution" made explicit in the Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party's July 20, 1927, announcement, the conference explicitly pointed out that the Land Revolution was the central issue of the Chinese bourgeois democratic revolution, and the main socio-economic content of the new stage of the Chinese revolution. The conference pointed out: practically, the main task is to solve the land problem with "civic" revolutionary means, to confiscate the lands of large and medium landlords, and to confiscate lands of so-called public properties such as ancestral halls and temples, and distribute them to tenant farmers or landless peasants. The small landlords should be given a rent reduction. This decision answered the critical issue of the Chinese revolution at that time. In China, the feudal land system is the important foundation of the reactionary rule of imperialism and feudal comprador forces. Therefore, resolving the peasant land problem has always been the fundamental issue of the revolution. 

Regarding the Armed Uprising, the conference clearly stated: the most primary task of the party is to systematically, planfully, and as possible prepare the total uprising of peasants in large areas. The conference believes that the main force of the peasant movement is the poor peasant, and decided to dispatch the most active, strong, and struggle-experienced party members to lead and initiate peasant uproar, organize the revolutionary army of workers and peasants, and establish the revolutionary government of workers and peasants, to resolve the peasant land issue. 

The Conference passed the "Decision on Party Organization". The decision stipulates that prior to the sixth national congress of the party, the acting politburo of the Central Committee shall exercise all powers of the Central Committee. It pointed out the main task now is to create strong and capable secret organizations, and all party organizations should reinforce secret party work; at the same time, the conference also calls for making use of all public opportunities to expand the influence of the party. 

When summarizing the lessons of the party's mistakes in the late period of the Great Revolution, the conference considered as an important reason that the majority of the party's leading organ was represented by intellectuals and representatives of the petty bourgeoisie, so it requested to promote worker comrades to take major responsibilities in the party's committee. Influenced by this view, the Central Announcement issued shortly after the conference pointed out that the party's political opportunism inevitably affected the party's organization. To change this situation, the announcement proposed to proletarianize the composition of the leading organs of the party, promote active worker-peasant members to take responsibility in the leading organs at all levels of the party; also proletarianize the membership of the party, and resolutely and quickly absorb a large number of worker-peasant members. Unfortunately, this guiding idea of improperly emphasizing the pure worker-peasant composition of leading organs and party members departed from the actual state of Chinese society and the party, resulting in a negative effect on the party's construction thereafter.



Especially during the period when the 'left' error occupied a dominant position in the central government, the emphasis on 'composition theory' was repeatedly emphasized, which seriously hindered the healthy development of the party's organization.
In addition to criticizing Chen Duxiu's right-leaning mistakes in his speech, Mao Zedong raised two very important issues. One is about the issue of military struggle. He criticized the party's past inclination to "do mass movements instead of military movements", suggesting that "we must pay great attention to the military in the future as we must know that political power is obtained from the barrel of a gun". This judgment was derived from the bloody lesson of the failure of the great revolution. It pointed out the characteristics of the Chinese revolution, and actually raised the issue of military struggle as the focus of the party's work. The other is about the issue of peasant land. He proposed that standards for large and medium landowners should be set and that confiscation should be applied to all landholdings over 50 acres, regardless of the quality of the land. The issue of small landowners is the central issue of land. If the lands of small landowners are not confiscated, "then there will be many places without large landlords, and the Peasant Association will have to stop working, so the landlord system should be fundamentally eliminated, and certain measures should be taken for small landlords. Rich and middle-class self-cultivating farmers have different land rights, and peasants want to attack the rich, so they must set a direction. This suggestion, which is in line with the landholding situation in Hunan, Hubei, Jiangxi, and Guangdong, laid the ideological foundation for the future launch of the land revolution and the formulation of the correct route for the land revolution. However, the Comintern representative did not accept Mao Zedong's correct opinion, but proposed that the fundamental solution to the land problem is to implement state ownership of land.
In the face of a serious crisis in the Chinese Revolution, the timely convening of the August 7th Conference and the formulation of the correct guideline to continue the revolutionary struggle prevented the entire party from panicking in the face of the extremely serious white terror, refueled the courage to fight against the Kuomintang reactionaries, and made a significant contribution to saving the party and the revolution. The Chinese revolution thus began a historic shift from the failure of the great revolution to the rise of the land revolution war.
However, due to the influence of the "leftist" ideas of the Comintern and its representatives and the "leftist" sentiment within the party, the August 7th Conference did not pay attention to preventing and correcting "left" errors while opposing right-leaning errors. There was a lack of understanding that the party should organize necessary retreats when the revolution was in a low-ebb situation, and there was a tendency to blindly instigate workers' strikes and organize urban riots. The conference did not invite Chen Duxiu to attend, only accused the erroneous leading persons, did not seriously summarize the lessons of the mistakes made from a theoretical and ideological perspective. The conference also inappropriately emphasized the importance of the pure worker composition of the party's leading organs and members. The conference believed that the completion of the anti-feudal bourgeois democratic revolution (including the land revolution), especially the completion of the anti-imperialist struggle, must be realized in the struggle against the already reactionary bourgeois. This understanding provided a theoretical basis for the development of later "left" errors, causing great harm to the Chinese revolution.
After the August 7th Conference, armed uprisings took place one after another. After the armed uprising, what kind of regime to establish was an urgent issue that needed to be addressed by the Chinese Communist Party. In the "Resolution on Recent Peasants' Struggle" and "Resolution on Recent Workers' Movement" passed by the August 7th Conference, it was proposed that "rural power belongs to the Peasant Association" and the goal of "dictatorship of workers and peasants" was to be achieved. On August 9th, the Temporary Politburo of the Central Committee clearly stated in a directive letter to the Hunan Provincial Committee of the Chinese Communist Party that it was necessary to establish a revolutionary government of proletarian dictatorship, specifically: all power in the countryside belongs to the Peasant Association; all power in the city belongs to the Revolutionary Committee; it should be propagated that the Revolutionary Committee should convene a meeting of representatives of labor unions, peasant associations, and revolutionary small businessmen to set up a regular "government of people's rights".



As for when to organize such a "civil rights government", the letter of instruction believes it should be decided after the local revolutionary committee's power is consolidated. At this time, although the CPC Central Committee had determined the policy of establishing a worker-peasant democratic government, it still proposed to organize the worker-peasant uprising under the banner of the left wing of the Kuomintang in the revolution. 

The CPC Central Committee believes that the Kuomintang is a special banner of the national liberation movement, and Communist Party members have joined the Kuomintang and have always been the center of the left wing of the Kuomintang. The actions and propaganda of the grassroots organizations and members of the Communist Party have made the Kuomintang have a revolutionary prestige among the petty bourgeoisie in cities and even some working masses. The Communist Party should not abandon this banner now. 

At the same time, organizing uprisings under the banner of the Kuomintang can attract revolutionary elements of the petty bourgeoisie. Therefore, the slogan of organizing the Soviet should not be raised at this moment. More than a month later, on September 19, the Central Temporary Political Bureau meeting passed a resolution based on the change of the situation, abandoned the banner of the "left-wing Kuomintang", and proposed the slogan of propaganda and establishment of the Soviet.

Two, the issue of China's revolutionary nature and revolutionary road. At the time of the failure of the national revolution and the unfolding of the land revolution, the Chinese Communist Party, while summarizing the lessons of the failure of the revolution, re-recognized and re-explored various basic issues of the Chinese revolution, including social nature, revolutionary nature, revolutionary power and class relations, the central content and main methods of the revolution, revolutionary power, revolutionary prospects, revolutionary road, etc. This is a necessary part of the work to be carried out after the climax of the revolution. The core of these issues is the issue of revolutionary nature and revolutionary path.

About the social nature. To understand the semi-colonial and semi-feudal social nature of China is the basis for understanding the basic problems of the Chinese revolution. Among Chinese Communists and early Marxists, the first to specifically use "semi-colonial" to describe the social nature of China was Cai Hesen. In September 1922, he stated in his article "Unification, Borrowing and the Kuomintang" that "China has long been in a semi-colonial position in international status." 

After the Fourth Congress of the Communist International reaffirmed in November 1922 that China was a "semi-colonial country", concepts such as "semi-colonial China", "semi-colonial society", and "semi-colonial Chinese society" played a wide role in the documents of the Chinese Communist Party and the works of Marxist theoreticians. The earliest use of the concept of "semi-feudal" among Chinese Communists and early Marxists was also Cai Hesen. In September 1922, in his article "Force Unification and Provincial Autonomy - Military Dictatorship and Military Separatism", he pointed out that China at that time belonged to a "semi-feudal and semi-democratic situation". In September 1924, Cai Hesen, in his article "Anatomy of Feng's Free-Revolutionary Movement", had mentioned the term "semi-bourgeois and semi-feudal society", but did not give a specific argument and explanation. 

The clear point of China's economic and social "semi-feudal" nature is the "Sixth National Congress" of the Chinese Communist Party. The "Resolution on the Land Issue" passed by the "Sixth National Congress" unambiguously pointed out: "The characteristics of China's economy, the characteristics of land relations, are clearly semi-feudal", "The current economic and political system of China should indeed be determined as semi-feudal" ...



Based on a clear understanding of the aspects of "semi-colonial" and "semi-feudal", in February 1929, the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China (CPC) used the full concept of "semi-colonial and semi-feudal" for the first time in its "Twenty-eighth Central Announcement on the strategy of the peasant movement". The document pointed out: "The Sixth Congress, based on the semi-colonial semi-feudal social-economic relations in China as well as years of precious experience gained by the peasants, set out the course for the peasant movement. It highlights the struggle to establish a united front against the landlord class in rural areas and consolidate the leadership of the proletariat in the peasant revolution, ensuring the victory of the land revolution and its transition towards a socialist future." Although the Sixth Congress of the CPC had a clear understanding of the semi-colonial and semi-feudal nature of Chinese society, it had not yet employed the concept of "semi-colonial semi-feudal". 

Previous articles seldom mentioned this document, which led to much disagreement about when the concept of "semi-colonial semi-feudal" was first proposed. After the major debate began in the 1930s, various different opinions on the nature of Chinese society were proposed again. After deliberation, Su Hua and Zhang Wentian were the first to reaffirm that Chinese society was semi-colonial and semi-feudal. In September 1933, Su Hua pointed out in his article "The Development of Chinese Capitalist Economy", that current Chinese society is a "semi-colonial semi-feudal society". This statement is centered on "semi-feudal society", and "semi-colonial" is used to modify "semi-feudal society". In January 1934, Zhang Wentian's article "The Socio-economic Foundation of Chinese Revolution" persuasively concluded that the economic characteristics of Chinese society were "semi-colonial and semi-feudal" and further pointed out: "This economy determines the tasks and nature of the Chinese revolution, the relationships between different classes in the Chinese revolution, and the dynamics of the Chinese revolution." 

About the nature of the revolution, Stalin pointed out in his speech to the joint meeting of the Central Committee of the Communist Party and the Central Control Commission on August 1, 1927 that the Chinese revolution has three stages. The first stage is a revolution of a national united front, mainly attacking foreign imperialism, and the national bourgeoisie is supportive of the revolutionary movement; The second stage is the bourgeois democratic revolution, which began when the National Revolutionary Army reached the Yangtze River. In this stage, the national bourgeoisie withdrew from the revolution, and the land movement developed into a powerful revolution involving millions of peasants (China is currently in the developing second stage); The third stage is the Soviet revolution, which has not yet arrived, but is impending. In the resolutions adopted by the Executive Committee of the Communist International on February 25, 1928, it is clearly pointed out: "The present stage of China's revolution is the stage of bourgeois democratic revolution." The 1927 meeting of the CPC pointed out: "China's revolution is still at the stage of bourgeois democratic revolution, which is against the oppression of imperialism and all social, economic and political vestiges of the feudal system."



"On April 30, 1928, the 'Announcement by the Central Bureau of the Communist Party of China on the Resolution of the Comintern' stated: 'The Central Political Bureau has always clearly understood that the Chinese revolution is still a bourgeois democratic revolution.' The 'Sixth Party Congress' further pointed out: 'The current stage of the Chinese revolution is a bourgeois democratic revolution,' because 'the goal of the current revolution' is to 'expel the imperialists, complete the true unity of China. Thoroughly overthrow the landowner's private land system in a civilian manner, carry out land reform... completely destroy all semi-feudal bindings in the land system.' In the articles of many Communists such as Mao Zedong, Cai Hesen, Qu Qiubai, Li Lisan, they clearly pointed out: 'The current stage of the Chinese revolution is a bourgeois democratic revolution.' The Communists recognized that the Chinese revolution still belongs to the bourgeois democratic revolution, while also pointing out that the Chinese bourgeois democratic revolution has its own 'particularities'. 

First, the Chinese bourgeois democratic revolution not only opposes imperialism and feudalism, but also opposes the national bourgeoisie. The political resolution of the 'Sixth Party Congress' pointed out: 'The current bourgeois democratic revolution in China must oppose the national bourgeoisie in order to be successful', 'because the national bourgeoisie is one of the most dangerous enemies hindering the success of the revolution.' The decision of the Sixth Comintern on political issues also pointed out: 'With the expansion of the scope of mass mobilization and the deepening of the land revolution, the national bourgeoisie gradually enters counter-revolution. Therefore, China's anti-imperialist struggle cannot be separated from opposition to the bourgeoisie and the land revolution.'

Communists believe that: 'China's national bourgeoisie is connected to the feudal land ownership of the landlord in a flesh-and-blood way. At the same time shamelessly surrendered to imperialism.' Although 'the economy of the Chinese national bourgeoisie is in conflict with imperialism, it fundamentally contradicts the interests of the vast majority of Chinese workers and peasants.' 'The Chinese bourgeoisie suffered economic aggression from imperialism, but it is unable to resist imperialism for compensation. He can only further exploit the Chinese workers and peasants for compensation'. Therefore, the Chinese revolution must oppose the national bourgeoisie. For a relatively long period of time after the failure of the great revolution, the Communists, based on the class standpoint, held hatred towards the betrayal of the revolution by the national bourgeoisie. According to the political attitude of the national bourgeoisie's hostility to the land revolution led by the Communist Party, they shouted slogans against the national bourgeoisie. However, most communists still understand: to oppose the bourgeoisie 'not because the national bourgeoisie is the representative of capitalism that should be opposed, but because the national bourgeoisie has become a tool of imperialism and an ally of the landlord class, betraying the revolution and becoming the leader of the counter-revolution against the democratic revolution. Therefore, this new task does not exceed the nature of the bourgeois democratic revolution, and it will not destroy the capitalist method of production, which is rather the starting point for the development of capitalism.'

Second, China's bourgeois democratic revolution is part of the world's proletarian socialist revolution. Cai Hesen once pointed out that China's bourgeois democratic revolution 'opposes international imperialism and forms part of the world revolution.' The 'Sixth Comintern' believes that 'the Chinese revolution has great world significance'. The political resolution of the Sixth Party Congress of the Communist Party of China pointed out: the Chinese bourgeois democratic revolution, 'oppose imperialism', 'weaken its power', 'which also reduces the violence of the imperialist oppression on the Soviet Union and the working class of various countries, which helps the world proletarian revolution's future.' 'It is a help to the world socialist revolution and is also a major part.'

Third, China's bourgeois democratic revolution must be led by the proletariat and unite the vast majority of people mainly composed of peasants. The 'Ordinance 87' Meeting Announcement to All Party Members of the Communist Party of China' pointed out: 'The Chinese working class, due to the relationship of objective conditions, is the most determined, thorough and uncompromising class struggling for China's national liberation. This situation enables the Chinese proletariat to have the right to lead the national liberation movement...



In "Why Can the Red Political Power Exist in China?", Mao Zedong pointed out: "China urgently needs a bourgeois democratic revolution, and this revolution must be led by the proletariat to be completed." Qu Qiubai stated: "The development of the Chinese revolution, based on its class basis, is inevitably a revolution of the proletariat leading the peasant soldiers and poor masses to overthrow the bourgeoisie of the gentry, landlords, domestic bourgeoisie and international imperialism." Cai Hesen emphasized that China's bourgeois democratic revolution, due to the betrayal of the national bourgeoisie, further established the "leadership of the proletariat". The "central issue of the Chinese revolution" can only be completely victorious under the condition of "union with the peasants".

Fourth, China's bourgeois democratic revolution has a non-capitalist future. In February 1927, the seventh expanded meeting of the Executive Committee of the Communist International made a resolution on the Chinese revolution issue, pointing out that the Chinese revolution has a non-capitalist (socialist) development. The Sixth Congress of the Communist Party also clearly pointed out this. Some Communist Party members pointed out: "The special feature of the Chinese bourgeois democratic revolution lies in the fact that its victory will open the way for socialist development." Why does the Chinese bourgeois democratic revolution have a non-capitalist future? Communists have answered from different angles. 

"The driving force of the Chinese revolution is now only the proletariat and the peasants, and the leadership of the proletariat can be established in the stage of the bourgeois democratic revolution (the proletariat can assist and guide the peasants to carry out the land revolution and lead the anti-imperialist struggle). Therefore, it can open the way for the future development of the Chinese revolution, giving it a non-capitalist future, which is also a socialist future. The world capitalism is now in a period of panic. The socialist construction of the Soviet Union, a proletarian dictatorship, has been going on for ten years, and its political and economic power is growing. This can assist the Chinese proletariat to strive for the socialist future of the revolution and ensure the possibility of victory."

"The crisis of China's industrial and agricultural economy requires socially transitional measures," namely, the confiscation of foreign capital by the Soviet government, "and then the confiscation of all large enterprises in the country to organize and command the national economic life." In addition, because "agricultural productivity is very weak, when the land revolution is completely successful, and can begin to develop towards capitalism, it will inevitably encounter a huge obstacle, this obstacle is the stubborn resistance of imperialism and the domestic landlord bourgeoisie and rich peasants who have been hit by the revolution". To overcome these obstacles, for the farmers (except for the rich peasants), the only choice is to "quickly prepare to transition to socialist revolution conditions, that is, to eliminate the capitalist market economy and replace it with an organized rural collective economy under the leadership of national urban industry. At such a turning point, it is no longer the starting point for capitalist development, but the preliminary stage of socialist construction."

The future of the Chinese bourgeois democratic revolution is non-capitalist, which is the consensus of the majority of Communists. However, there are serious disagreements about when the Chinese bourgeois democratic revolution will transition to the socialist revolution. The Communist Party's understanding of this issue took a detour. 

The enlarged meeting of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China in November 1927 believed that the Chinese revolution was an "uninterrupted revolution" that "necessarily completely solves the democratic tasks and quickly moves towards the socialist road". Qu Qiubai further argued for this "uninterrupted revolution" that "it can't help but go beyond the scope of bourgeois democracy", even believing that "the current stage of the Chinese revolution has grown into a socialist revolution."

The Communist International, the "Sixth Communist Congress", and some Communists criticized this view, pointing out that only "under the condition of the complete victory of the democratic revolution, can the transition to the socialist revolution begin", and it is absolutely impossible to "jump over the stage of the democratic revolution". At the same time, it also emphasizes: "The end of the democratic revolution is also the beginning of the decisive struggle for the socialist revolution", and between these two, neither the development of capitalism is allowed nor possible.




After the August 7th Conference, the Communist Party of China led the uprising, launched armed struggle, and realized the transformation of the form of struggle. However, the Chinese Communist Party Central Committee at that time did not realize that the revolutionary situation had turned into a low ebb, but instead wrongly estimated the situation, disregarding the objective and subjective conditions, and blindly demanded armed uprisings in some areas. As a result, the "leftist" sentiment in the party gradually grew. 

In the twists and turns of exploring the basic issues of the Chinese revolution, many comrades still focused the central task of the party on preparing for urban uprisings and work in white areas during a long period after 927. The same mistake was repeatedly made on this issue in each "Leftist" error. The historical lesson of their mistakes is not to start from the reality of the Chinese revolution, not to investigate and research the historical and social situation of China, sit in big cities, rigidly adhere to doctrines, mechanically apply foreign experiences, so although they have some partial knowledge, they eventually cannot become wisdom that connects theory with practice and suits the specific situation of China, thereby underestimating the importance of military struggle, especially the peasant guerrilla warfare and rural bases, attacking the theory of "encircling the city from the countryside" as the so-called "local and conservative consciousness of peasant consciousness", and always dreaming that the workers' struggle in the city and other mass struggles can suddenly break through the enemy's high pressure and flourish, always wanting to launch armed uprisings in central cities, to achieve the so-called first victory in one province or several provinces, forming the so-called national revolutionary climax and national victory, and using this dream as the center of all work arrangements. 

This "leftist" mistake was blindly copying the experience of the Russian Revolution. Under the guidance of the "leftist" error theory of the Communist International, from the 9th to the 10th of 1927, the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China convened an extended meeting of the temporary Political Bureau in Shanghai. The meeting was chaired by Xu Qiubai, with Romina, the representative of the Communist International, participating. The meeting passed Romina's draft resolution on "The Current Situation in China and the Tasks of the Party", as well as resolutions on organizational issues and political discipline. On the one hand, the resolution correctly called on all revolutionary forces to resolutely oppose imperialism and overthrow the reactionary rule of the Kuomintang under the leadership of the Communist Party, resolutely lead peasant uprisings, implement rural separatism, confiscate the land of the landlord class for peasant farming, organize the Revolutionary Army of workers and peasants, launch guerrilla warfare, etc. On the other hand, it considered the Chinese revolution to be the so-called "uninterrupted revolution", "the current revolutionary struggle, which must inevitably go beyond the scope of democracy and progress rapidly," and that it must be thoroughly resolved and quickly entered the path of socialism. In this way, the boundaries between democratic revolution and socialist revolution were confused. The meeting accepted Romina's "leftist" perspective, believed that Chiang Kai-shek's betrayal was the betrayal of the entire national bourgeoisie, Wang Jingwei's betrayal was the betrayal of the petty bourgeoisie, and therefore proposed that while opposing imperialism and feudalism, it would also oppose the national bourgeoisie and the upper petty bourgeoisie. The conference did not admit that the revolutionary situation was at a low ebb, believed that the rule of the new warlords of the Kuomintang was on the verge of collapse, and that the current situation in China was a direct revolution. The conference accordingly determined the overall strategy of launching a national armed uprising, and required the combination of rural uprising and urban uprising, with the urban uprising as the "center and guide", to form a nationwide armed uprising, until a revolutionary victory situation in one province or several provinces. The meeting also laid down a series of over-"leftist" policies, such as advocating the expropriation of enterprises of Chinese and foreign big capitalists, "factories owned by workers", and demanding "extremely severe and ruthless killing of all the nobles and anti-revolutionaries" in times of peasant uprising, and so on.



According to the proposal by Romine, the meeting did not specifically analyze the failures and frustrations suffered by the armed uprisings in various places after the August 7th Conference, but unilaterally blamed the uprising leaders for "hesitation", "violating the central policy" and making "opportunistic" mistakes. The meeting decided to impose different political disciplinary punishments on the leaders of the Nanchang Uprising and the Autumn Harvest Uprising in the Hunan-Jiangxi border region, and on the responsible persons of the relevant provincial committees, such as Zhou Enlai, Tan Pingshan, Mao Zedong, Peng Gongda, etc. While affirming the organizational progress of the Party since the August 7th Conference, the expanded meeting also concretized the guiding ideology of the Party's guiding organs and party members becoming worker-peasant-focussed. The "Resolution on Important Tasks in Recent Organizational Issues" passed by the meeting believed that one of the main shortcomings of the party's organization was that the leading cadres of the party were not workers, or even poor peasants, but representatives of the petty-bourgeois intellectuals. This was considered a source of opportunism within the Party. Therefore, the resolution proposed that the party's most important organizational task is to replace the non-proletarian intellectual cadres with new worker-peasant cadre, and to make the proletarian and poor elements occupy the majority in the party's guiding cadre. The meeting required that the guiding organs of the party be thoroughly reformed before the 6th Party Congress. 

From mid-November to mid-December, the spirit of the expanded meeting of the Temporary Politburo began to be implemented everywhere. In some areas, there were forced strikes among the workers, peasant uprisings, blind burnings, and killings, causing the party in these areas to be temporarily severely disconnected from the mass base. There were a few armed peasant uprisings that achieved certain victories, most were not successful, or did not get started at all. The strikes carried out by a few workers and activists in big cities like Wuhan, Changsha, and Shanghai were also quickly suppressed. 

In late December, the CCCP, led by Qu Qiubai, concluded that rebellion was hard to provoke in every region, and subsequently issued notices in succession, instructing some areas not to call for immediate rebellion if the conditions were not met. They decided to stop the planned New Year's Rebellion in Hunan and Hubei, thus avoiding some losses, which had some effect in correcting rash errors. However, at this time, the CCCP had not yet fully recognized its "leftist" errors from the guiding ideology and overall strategy, so it was impossible to thoroughly correct the global rash errors. 

The "Leftist" rash errors occurred during the historical turning period from the failure of the Great Revolution to the rise of the Land Revolution. The reasons were the rage at the Kuomintang's massacre policy; within the party, there was a general impatient desperation. Meanwhile, some people who had previously committed rightist errors were afraid to recommit them, thinking that "left is better than right", which provided the hotbed for the development of "leftist" errors. At this time, it was impossible for the party to provide correct analysis and solutions to various pressing issues faced by the Chinese revolution after the failure of the Great Revolution, and it also lacked the experience of internal party struggles, failing to know that while countering the right, it must also protect against the "left". 

The Comintern representative, Romine, bore significant responsibility for the emergence of this "leftist" error. He was the major proponent and implementer of political spontaneousness, organizational punishment, and other "leftist" policies. The temporary Politburo led by Qu Qiubai also bore direct responsibility for this "leftist" error.

The Li Lisan line is also the "urban-centric theory". On January 11, 1930, the CCP Politburo passed the "Resolution to Accept the Directive Letter of the International October 26th, 1929". On February 26th, the CCP Central Committee issued the 70th announcement, making an excessive estimation of the revolutionary situation, believing that "the current national crisis is deepening and the new wave of revolution is in progress", and the mass struggle nationwide is "moving towards a balanced development path". In accordance with this estimate, the announcement set out the party's "current overall political line" to be to merge all kinds of struggles, "move towards 'transforming the warlords' war into a domestic class war' to overthrow the KMT's rule, and establish Soviet power".




The announcement points out: the Party is not to continue the strategy of accumulating power during the downturn of the revolution, but to implement a strategy of actively concentrating power for attack. Each area is to organize workers' political strikes, local uprisings, and military mutinies, and concentrate the Red Army to attack major cities. In April and May, the CPC Central Committee and the Central Military Commission made specific plans and deployments for this. During this process, Li Lisan published several articles such as "Questions in Front of the New Revolutionary Climax" on the Party's official publications such as "Red Flag" and "Bolshevik", proposing a series of "left" views on the Chinese revolution. After the outbreak of the Central Plains War and the Hunan-Guangdong-Guangxi Border War, Li and others believed that the revolutionary situation had matured nationwide. Therefore, at the Central Political Bureau meeting convened in June 1930, a resolution was passed drafted by Li called "Resolution on Current Political Tasks" (or "The New Revolutionary High Tide and the First Victory of One Province or Several Provinces"). The resolution made an erroneous estimation of the revolutionary situation, believing that "the fundamental economic and political crisis in China continues to sharpen everywhere in the country, with no fundamental difference"; "the general situation indicates that the new revolutionary high tide in China has come close to us", and "there is a great possibility of becoming a nationwide revolutionary victory". The resolution also believes that "the unprecedented world events and the time of the world revolution are approaching us", once the Chinese revolution breaks out it will "set off a world revolution", and the Chinese Revolution will achieve complete victory in this final battle. Based on such an erroneous estimations of the revolutionary situation, the resolution believes that the current Party no longer needs to gradually accumulate and prepare the forces for revolution, because the masses no longer want small fights, only big fights, that is, only armed revolts, and this is a nationwide armed revolt. The resolution mechanically applied the experience of the Russian October Revolution, believing that as long as a great workers' struggle suddenly breaks out in industrial areas or political centers, immediate success can be achieved through an armed uprising in one or several provinces, a nationwide revolutionary government can be established, and then victory can be won in all provinces nationwide. Although the resolution acknowledges that it is necessary to organize the Red Army in the rural areas, it believes that the task of the Red Army is "to cooperate with the armed riots in major cities to seize power and establish a nationwide revolutionary government." Therefore, the "past guerrilla tactics" must be fundamentally changed. It calls for the Red Army to be concentrated, under unified command, and to carry out large-scale offensive warfare. The resolution's views on the nature of the Chinese revolution and the problem of revolutionary transition also return to the erroneous understanding of the "uninterrupted revolution" that was criticised by the Party's Sixth Congress. Although the resolution recognizes that the current stage of the Chinese revolution is still a bourgeois democratic revolution with the main tasks of anti-imperialism and anti-feudalism, it also determines that "the bourgeoisie has already become a part of the reactionary alliance". If the revolution is first successful in one province or several provinces, not only will the banks, enterprises, and factories of imperialism in China be confiscated, "but also the factories, enterprises, and banks of the Chinese bourgeoisie" will be confiscated; politically, it will "necessarily need to transfer from a worker-peasant dictatorship to a proletarian dictatorship". The resolution points out: "The beginning of the revolutionary victory, the beginning of the establishment of the revolutionary government represent the beginning of the revolutionary transition"; "If you think that the revolution must win nationwide before the revolutionary transition can begin, this is a serious mistake"; the phased theory of revolutionary transition is "undoubtedly an extremely dangerous right-wing conception". Under the guidance of the aforementioned erroneous thoughts, Li et al. formulated a risky plan centered on Wuhan to instigate uprisings in all central cities nationwide and to concentrate the nationwide Red Army to attack central cities. In July, preparations for uprisings in cities such as Nanjing, Shanghai, and Wuhan were prioritized. At the same time, it was stipulated: the Red Third Army Corps was to cut off the Wuhan-Changsha railway and press on Wuhan; the Red First Army Corps was to take Nanchang and Jiujiang to cut off the Yangtze River and cover the success in Wuhan; the Red Second and First Army Corps were to cooperate and press on Wuhan. The Red Seventh Army Corps was to attack Liuzhou, Guilin, and Guangzhou. All local Red Armies, in accordance with the directives of the Central Committee and the Military Commission, immediately took military actions.




In late July, under the victorious momentum of the counter-offensive operation in Pingjiang, the Red Third Army occupied Changsha on the 27th while it was unguarded. Upon hearing this news, Li Lisan and others believed more strongly that the goals of "meeting in Wuhan", "drinking horses in the Yangtze River", and even achieving national victory could be realized soon. The "left-leaning" error has thus developed further from this point. From early to mid-August, under the slogan of "militarization" needed by the entire party organization, Li Lisan and others established the Central General Action Committee to serve as the highest command for leading armed uprisings; they merged various leadership institutions of the Communist Party, Communist Youth League, and unions at all levels into action committees (abbreviated as Xingwei), halting normal activities of the Party, League, and unions; they further proposed preparing for Wuhan uprisings, Nanjing uprisings, general strikes in Shanghai, and detailed plans for establishing the Central Soviet Government in Wuhan and national uprisings; they proposed that "the Soviet Union must actively prepare for war", hundreds of thousands of Chinese workers in Siberia should quickly arm themselves, and "prepare to fight against Japanese imperialism"; they also proposed that Mongolia should also launch large-scale troops attacking the reactionary forces in northern China when the Chinese uprising succeeded. Li Lisan and others called for the entire party to "be brave, braver, and advance bravely". Up to this point, Li Lisan's "left-leaning" adventurous error had developed to its climax.

The Wang Ming line is a typical dogmatism. This is very clearly reflected in the pamphlet “Two Lines” he wrote. This pamphlet, although criticizes some of Li Lisan's "left-leaning" adventurous errors, but he believes that Li Lisan's error overall is right-leaning, and is a right-opportunistic line that is masked by "left-leaning" words. Why does Wang Ming believe Li Lisan’s clearly "left-leaning" error to be right-leaning? This is mainly because Wang Ming's views are even more "left" than those of Li Lisan and others. He maintains that the driving force of the Chinese revolution is only the workers, peasants, and the lower petty bourgeoisie, all other classes and strata "have turned to the reactionary camp", so there is no "third force" and "middle camp". He equates the bourgeoisie and the upper petty bourgeoisie with imperialism and feudalism, all viewed as objects of the revolution, claiming: The current stage of China’s democratic revolution will only thoroughly succeed with resolute struggle against the bourgeoisie. He emphasizes that a national revolution is underway, with a strategy of offense across the country. He argues: "At present, we do not have a direct revolutionary situation in the entire China, but under the growing new highs of the nationwide revolutionary movement and the conditions of unbalanced development, the direct revolutionary situation may soon be included in one or more of the main provinces." He advocates real victory in one or several provinces such as Hunan, Hubei, and Jiangxi, and then strive for and win victory across the country. Both Li Lisan and Wang Ming insist that the Chinese revolution should focus on urban workers' uprisings, but Wang Ming, according to the decision of the Communist International, proposes: "New revolutionary movements are maturing in China, the most reliable sign of a new climax is the high tide of workers' strike struggles"; organizing and leading workers' economic struggles, truly preparing for general strikes and even armed uprisings, is the most important task of the Communist Party. Although Wang Ming also emphasizes the importance of the Red Army's power, he does not understand the rules of the Red Army's operation and the development of revolutionary bases under the strong-enemy and weak-ours situation. He criticized the party and the Red Army for "still not being able to establish a true revolutionary base that can truly be the most reliable revolutionary center by the winter of 1930", and considers that resistance to right-leaning is essential. On the issue of land revolution, Wang Ming proposed "left-leaning" ideas such as "resolutely cracking down on rich peasants" and "making rich peasants get worse land". In organization, he requested to "enhance and replenish leadership institutions at all levels with proactive and executive international line struggle cadres — particularly worker cadres".

The pamphlet "Two Lines" is essentially the political manifesto of Wang Ming's "left-leaning" dogmatism.



From the winter of 1927 to January 1935, the Chinese Communist Party made three "left" leaning mistakes in more than seven years, one of their common characteristics being urban centrism. Why was it that they weren't fundamentally corrected, making repeated mistakes? One of the fundamental reasons lies in the skewed orientation of the ideology. The ideological line forms the political foundation. If the ideological line is skewed, it is impossible to formulate a correct political line. Particularly, Wang Ming did not start from the actual conditions of China, regarded dogma as a sacred treasure that could not be violated, and implemented policies based on dogma, with instructions from the Communist International as the only guide. Given that the international communist movement has no experience of rural areas surrounding cities for revolution, there is no discussion of this aspect in their directives or textbooks. They believed that the Chinese revolution must also focus on the city. Their logic was that foreign experience shows the proletariat achieves victory through armed uprisings in the cities. Since the Chinese revolution is also led by the proletariat, which is always tied to the cities, placing the focus of party work on rural areas and not on cities would be tantamount to denying the Communist Party is a party of the proletariat and denying the leadership of the proletariat over the peasants; in the end, they feared that the party would only become a petty bourgeois peasant party. They were always worried that if the rural areas were made the focus, it would be too far from the cities, which would lack leadership by the proletariat. Based on this erroneous understanding, they one-sidedly emphasized that urban armed uprisings were the main sign of the national revolutionary climax. There was a repeated demand that work in all Soviet districts "should shift from rural simplicity to important cities,” placing the focus of work in cities. This disregard of rural areas as revolutionary bases is clearly unsuitable for the situation in China.

Marxism believes that there are common basic laws in the development of human society, and it is wrong to deny these basic laws. However, among different countries and ethnic groups, there are also different historical conditions and characteristics. If we do not proceed from the actual conditions of our own country, and from the characteristics of our own revolution, to practically apply the universal truths of Marxism-Leninism, we cannot guide the revolution towards victory. This is the most fundamental historical lesson from the three "left" leaning lines. The entire historical experience of the Chinese Communist Party repeatedly proves one truth: whenever the dialectical materialistic ideological line deviates, the political line becomes incorrect, leading to harm to the revolutionary cause; whenever the dialectical materialistic ideological line is adhered to, we can formulate a political line suitable for the actual conditions in China, leading to the constant development of the revolutionary cause.


During the Great Revolution period and the Land Revolution War period, the Chinese Communist Party, guided by the principles of Marxism-Leninism and with the help of the Communist International, led the Chinese revolution to significant victories; however, at the same time, on the issue of integrating the principles of Marxism-Leninism with the actual conditions of the Chinese revolution, they made significant mistakes. Especially from 1931 to 1934, the extreme "leftist" dogmatists represented by Wang Ming committed more serious errors in terms of severing the relationships between theory and reality. They didn't apply the basic principles of Marxism-Leninism based on the specific conditions of the Chinese Revolution, but adapted the actual situation of the Chinese Revolution to apply pre-existing formulas. They, especially regarding the instructions of the Communist International, exhibited blind obedience and revered the so-called international line as the golden rule, using it as the criteria to assess all theories and practical work.



As a result, it first ruined the party's work in the white areas, and then incurred the failure of the Red Army's war, causing the Chinese revolution to suffer another severe setback. The ups and downs of the revolutionary cause made the Chinese Communist Party profoundly realize the importance of linking theory with practice, applying foreign experience and Comintern directives according to the country's circumstances. Mao Zedong's works such as "On the Strategic Problems of Chinese Revolutionary War", "On Practice", and "On Contradiction" have shown the re-establishment of the correct ideological line in the Party Central Committee. However, after the outbreak of the Anti-Japanese War, Wang Ming, who returned from the Soviet Union, made the same mistake of divorcing from Chinese realities, copying foreign experience and Comintern directives indiscriminately. What's different is that he shifted from "left" bias to right tendency.

At that time, the Communist International and the Soviet Union actively supported the Chinese people's anti-Japanese war cause. But they once again overestimated the strength of the Kuomintang and underestimated the strength of the Chinese Communist Party. They mistakenly believed that only Chiang Kai-shek's army could restrain and hit Japanese imperialism on the Chinese battlefield. They advocated that the Communist Party should make more concessions to the Kuomintang, not in agreement with the Communist Party's principle of independence and the policy of both unity and struggle in the united front. They suggested "unconditional obedience to the Anti-Japanese National United Front" and "all through the Anti-Japanese National United Front". They only focused on the regular war and position war of the Kuomintang army, ignoring the role of the anti-Japanese guerrilla warfare led by the Communist Party. Wang Ming took these views as his basis for observing China's Anti-Japanese problems, and tried his best to develop them, thus forming a new right-leaning mistake in new historical conditions. Wang Ming claimed that both the Communist Party and the Nationalist Party were "a gathering of the progressive youth of a large part of China," and that Chiang Kai-shek "will become China's immortal national hero". He advocated "all through the united front", "all obedience to the united front", did not agree with emphasizing the principle of "independence and autonomy", and opposed raising the issue of leadership in the united front. He belittled the people's army and guerrilla warfare led by the Communist Party, ignored the work of the anti-Japanese base areas behind enemy lines, put the hope of victory in the regular war of the Nationalist Army, and advocated the strategic principle of "taking mobile warfare as the main with guerrilla warfare and supplemented by positional warfare". He even proposed that the armies led by the Communist Party and the Nationalist Party should be unified in organization, armament, discipline, treatment, command, operation plans, and actions. As Wang Ming continued to use the flag of the "Communist International", his misguided views still had some misleading power, were implemented in some areas, and caused some damage to the cause of the Anti-Japanese War and the development of the people's revolutionary forces. The Sixth Plenary Session of the Sixth Central Committee of the Communist Party of China, convened from the end of September to the first half of November in 1938, basically overcome Wang Ming's rightist mistakes. It was at this meeting that the Chinese Communist Party, based on 17 years of experience since its establishment, clearly put forward the task of "concretizing Marxism in China".

In "On the New Stage," a keynote report made by Mao Zedong for the meeting, there is a section devoted to the issue of "learning". He pointed out: "A political party that guides a great revolutionary movement, if it doesn't have revolutionary theories, doesn't have historical knowledge, and doesn't have a deep understanding of the actual movement, it will be impossible to win." For this, he put forward three corresponding learning tasks: learning Marxist theory, learning historical heritage, and studying the current actual movement. Regarding the first task, he said: We are leading a large nation with tens of millions of people, and we are going through a struggle like never before. Therefore, the task of universally and deeply studying the theory of Marxism-Leninism, for us, is a major issue that urgently needs to be solved and needs to be focused on in order to solve. Mao Zedong called for "a learning competition for the whole party, to see who really learned something, and who learned more and better".

However, to study Marxist theory, one must solve a question of attitude...



What is the correct attitude to adopt? Mao Zedong believed that Marxisms and Leninist theories should not be regarded as dogmas, but rather as guides to action. People should not only learn the words and phrases, but also study them as the science of revolution. They should not only understand the general laws, but also learn the perspectives and methods for identifying and solving problems. It is particularly important to "learn to apply the theories of Marxism-Leninism to China's specific environment", "to use it according to China's characteristics", because "Marxism must be combined with the specific characteristics of our country and realized through certain national forms". "Talking about Marxism without considering China's characteristics is empty abstract Marxism". "Therefore, to make Marxism specific to China, to make it carry the necessary Chinese characteristics in each manifestation", is the "issue that the entire Party urgently needs to understand and resolve". Mao Zedong pointedly and harshly said: "The eight-legged essays must be abolished, empty abstract chants must be reduced, dogma must rest, and to replace them with fresh and lively Chinese style and Chinese character." These statements by Mao Zedong, following On Practice and On Contradiction, more clearly point out the attitude that Chinese Communists should have towards Marxism and the instructions of the Communist International. Only by "making Marxism specific to China" can it conform to the essence of Marxism.
In the report on the issue of the Anti-Japanese National United Front and the party's organization, Zhang Wentian expressed the same view as Mao Zedong. He believes that: "The principles and methods of Marxism are international, but we are carrying out organizational work in China. We must strictly take into account the characteristics of China's politics, economy, culture, thoughts, and customs and correctly understand these characteristics before we decide on our forms of struggle, organization, and methods." He calls for "making organizational work more local to China," and for implementing the principles of Marxism "in a national environment." "Transplanting foreign party decisions to China is bound to fail." The resolution of the Sixth Plenary Session of the party calls on the whole party to "learn how to apply Marxism-Leninism and international experience flexibly to every practical struggle in China."
Implementing Marxist principles according to China's characteristics, and making Marxism concrete in China, represents an elevation in understanding that Mao Zedong and other Chinese Communists came to after experiencing rough and torturous path. This elevation goes beyond the summary of general revolutionary experience, and instead puts forward a basic principle guiding the Chinese revolution. The clarification of this principle throughout the Party signifies the Communist Party of China's maturing development and the maturation of the Party's theoretical thinking, which provides an ideal internal condition for the eventual formation of the New Democracy theory system. During this process, the external conditions were also gradually met.

After the outbreak of the Anti-Japanese War, the Chinese Communist Party emerged from an arena that had previously been tightly blocked, becoming a major national party, openly appearing on the national political stage, and gaining increasingly closer scrutiny from the public. They are eager to understand the Chinese Communist Party's views on the current situation and the future of China. In order to maintain its independence and autonomy in the Anti-Japanese National United Front, the Chinese Communist Party needs to clearly put forward its own political positions that are distinct from other parties before the national populace and attract people to its banner.
After the start of the national Anti-Japanese War, the Nationalist Party and the Communist Party engaged in a fierce debate on the issue of the Three People's Principles.



Just as the KMT and the CCP had reached a cooperation agreement, Chiang Kai-shek proposed in his talk on "Conversation on the Declaration to the Communist Party" that the Three Principles of the People are the "foundation of China", and "There is only one direction for China to strive today", which is the Three Principles of the People. In early 1938, the conservative faction of the KMT launched a propaganda campaign in Wuhan advocating "one doctrine", "one party", and "one leader". KMT-controlled newspapers, such as the Sweep Revolution Report, continuously published articles attacking the Chinese Communist Party and Marxism. The KMT's hired writers clamored: "The KMT is the pet among all parties, and parties beyond it cannot talk about equality with it. There is "no reason for independent existence" either today or in the future.

After the Anti-Japanese War entered a stalemate phase, this kind of propaganda became more intensified. In December 1938, Zhang Junli of the National Social Party published an open letter to Mr. Mao Zedong, while advocating the abolition of the border area, the Eighth Route Army and the New Fourth Army, he also wanted to discuss with Mao Zedong "the theory of the Communist Party". He sternly wrote: "In the current stage, since you are working hard in foreign wars of nationality, why not temporarily put aside Marxism and let the peoples' thoughts go on clearly right or wrong, without the need to obscure with grey words and covers. If this can be achieved, the ideologies of various factions in the country, taking the salvation of the nation and the country as the starting point, their approach to each other will be easy." Ye Qing, a defector from the Chinese Communist Party, known as the "theorist" of the KMT, even openly advocated: "The Three Principles of the People can meet all of China's current and future requirements. Once it is realized, China will no longer need socialism, and there will be no need for a party to struggle for socialism."

He also said: All parties outside of the KMT have no reason to exist independently, not only today, but also in the future. In January 1939, Chiang Kai-shek made a report titled "Awakening Party Spirit, Promoting Party Virtue, Consolidating Party Foundation" at the fifth plenary session of the fifth session of the KMT, and delivered a speech titled "Essentials of Party Affairs Consolidation". The so-called "awake party spirit" and "promote party virtue" are to implement the authoritarianism of "one doctrine", "one party", and "one leader". In September, he published another long article titled "The System of Three Principles of People and Its Implementation Procedures", advocating the so-called "Governing the Country by the Party" and "Building the Country by the Party", "to make the day of victory in the anti-Japanese war the time of completion of the construction of the country". 

Consequently, answering the question of where China is going has become a major theoretical issue. Mao Zedong, Zhang Wentian, Zhou Enlai, and other leaders of the Central Communist Party, as well as the theoretical circles in Yan'an, responded to the stubborn faction of the Kuomintang's attack on Marxism and the Communist Party of China by publishing a series of articles and speeches. They strongly exposed and criticized various false three people's principles, discussed the difference between Sun Yat-sen's new three people's principles and the old three people's principles, and the relationship between the three people's principles and communism.

Mao Zedong strongly refuted the fallacy that "recognizing the Three Principles of People means giving up communism". He analyzed the history of the development of the Three Principles of the People, compared the Three Principles of the People with communism, and pointed out that the revolutionary Three Principles of the People reinterpreted by Sun Yat-sen are the same as the basic points of the Communist Party's minimum program, that is, the New Democracy. Therefore, the Communist Party recognizes the Three Principles of the People as the political basis of the Anti-Japanese National United Front.



However, there are differences between the two. They are two thinking systems guided by different worldviews, and their specific policies at this stage are not exactly the same. The thoroughness of the revolution and the prospects of the revolution are different, that is, after the completion of the New Democratic Revolution, there is a highest program to establish a socialist and communist social system, while the Three People's Principles does not have. Ignoring this difference is wrong. The diehards are not only unreasonable in asking the Communist Party to "hold back" Communism, but they also show that the Three People's Principles they talk about are not Sun Yat-sen's Revolutionary Three People's Principles, but counterfeit ones. Their shout, "One principle," actually denies the united front and negates the status of the Communist Party and the working and peasant masses, insisting on the despotism of "one-party dictatorial rule". Such practices are fundamentally unfeasible. Mao Zedong stated that Communists will always cooperate with all sincere supporters of the Three Peoples Principles, and will never abandon any friends.

The debate between the KMT and the Communist Party on the Three People's Principles further clarified the nature of Chinese society and the characteristics of historical development from a theoretical perspective. It clarified major issues such as the nature, tasks, and basic strategic tactics of the Chinese revolution, and promoted the establishment of the new democratic theory system of the Communist Party of China.

The Communist Party of China regards the Anti-Japanese War as a stage of the Chinese New Democratic Revolution. To carry out the Anti-Japanese War, it is necessary not only to drive out Japanese aggressors but also to create conditions for the construction of New China. In order to explain to the whole party and the people of the whole country the party's views on the Chinese revolution and the construction of New China, Mao Zedong conducted a large amount of theoretical research work in Yan'an, and concentrated the wisdom of the entire party collective to systematically summarize the experience of the Chinese revolution.

In the "May 4th Movement" article published on May 1, 1939, Mao Zedong already said: "The May 4th Movement 20 years ago showed that China's anti-imperialist and anti-feudal bourgeois democratic revolution has developed to a new stage." "The completion of China's democratic revolution depends on certain social forces. These social forces are: the working class, the peasant class, intellectuals and progressive bourgeoisie, that is, revolutionary workers, peasants, soldiers, academics, and businessmen, and the fundamental revolutionary force is the proletariat and peasants, and the leading class of the revolution is the working class. It is impossible to complete the anti-imperialist and anti-feudal democratic revolution without this fundamental revolutionary force and without the leadership of the working class." In his speech on the direction of the youth movement on May 4, he called the ongoing Chinese revolution "Our Chinese People's Democratic Revolution against Imperialism and Feudalism". He said, "This revolution, the bourgeoisie is incapable of completing, and it must be completed by the proletariat and the vast majority of people." It must "establish a people's democratic republic" and "establish a people's democratic system" after overthrowing imperialism and feudalism. "It is different from the current semi-colonial and semi-feudal state, and it is also different from the future socialist system." But undoubtedly, "China will certainly develop to socialism in the future, and such a rule cannot be overturned by anyone."

In these two articles, Mao Zedong has clearly stated: The anti-imperialist and anti-feudal democratic revolution in China has developed to a new stage since the May 4th Movement, led by the working class; it aims to establish a People's Democratic Republic that is neither a semi-colonial nor a semi-feudal state, nor a future socialist system, and will develop into Socialism in the future.



Clearly, Mao Zedong's New Democracy theory was already brewing, pondering, and forming at this time, but the clear concept of "New Democracy" had not yet been proposed, nor had there been time for systematic argumentation and explanation.
The earliest proposal of the scientific concept of New Democracy was made in "The Chinese Revolution and the Chinese Communist Party," written in December 1939. This was a textbook co-authored by Mao Zedong and several other comrades in Yan'an, with Chapter 2 "The Chinese Revolution" written by Mao himself, and Chapter 1 "Chinese Society" drafted by others and finalized by him. "The Chinese Revolution and the Chinese Communist Party" was first published in the Yan'an publication "Communist." After the establishment of New China, this work was included in "Selected Works of Mao Zedong" after his review. In this article, Mao Zedong distinguished the bourgeois democracy revolution into the old democratic revolution and the new democratic revolution for the first time, and explicitly stipulated: "The so-called new democratic revolution is the anti-imperialist and anti-feudal revolution of the masses under the leadership of the proletariat."
Why can the bourgeois democratic revolution at this stage in China only be a new democratic revolution? This is determined by China's actual national conditions.
Mao Zedong wrote: "To understand the nature of Chinese society is to understand China's national conditions, which is the basic basis for understanding all revolutionary issues." For this reason, "The Chinese Revolution and the Chinese Communist Party," first started by analyzing Chinese society and, based on this, detailed the objects, tasks, dynamics, nature, and prospects of the Chinese revolution.
He pointed out: Chinese society at present is a colonial, semi-colonial, and semi-feudal society. This kind of social nature determines that the main targets or main enemies of the Chinese revolution at this stage are imperialism and feudalism. Among them, the national oppression of imperialism is the greatest oppression, so imperialism is the first and most vicious enemy of the Chinese people. After Japan's military invasion of China, the main enemies of the Chinese revolution are Japanese imperialism and all traitors and reactionaries who collude with Japan openly surrender or prepare to surrender. The task of the Chinese revolution is to overthrow the national revolution oppressed by imperialism abroad and the democratic revolution oppressed by feudal landlords at home, with the most important task being to overthrow the national revolution of imperialism. These two revolutionary tasks are interrelated.
The enemies of the Chinese revolution are extremely powerful. Who can complete the arduous task of the Chinese revolution? This is the issue of the driving force of the Chinese revolution. After analyzing the economic status and political conditions of all classes in Chinese society one by one, Mao Zedong concluded: The Chinese proletariat has many outstanding advantages, so it can become the basic driving force of the Chinese revolution. "If the Chinese revolution does not have the leadership of the proletariat, it is bound to fail." But if it relies solely on the power of this class, it cannot succeed. To succeed, it is necessary to unite all possible revolutionary classes and strata under various circumstances and organize a united front of the revolution.



Among different classes in Chinese society, peasants are the firm allies of the working class, the petty bourgeoisie in cities are also reliable allies, and the national bourgeoisie are allies to certain extents and in certain periods. 
The bourgeoisie in China is a complex issue. Mao Zedong clearly pointed out: "There is a distinction between the big bourgeoisie with a comprador - nature and the national bourgeoisie". This is a very important distinction. Mao Zedong pointed out that the national bourgeoisie is a class with a dual nature: on the one hand, they are subject to oppression from imperialism and feudalism, hence they can be one of the forces of revolution; on the other hand, due to their economic and political weaknesses, and their failure to completely sever ties with imperialism and feudalism, they lack the courage to oppose imperialism and feudalism thoroughly, which becomes evident when the power of the masses rises. Mao also mentioned that this dualistic nature of the national bourgeoisie allows them to participate in the revolution against imperialism and the bureaucratic-military government in certain periods and to some extent, becoming a force in the revolution. Yet, there is also a risk of their becoming reactionary accomplices of the comprador bourgeoisie at other times. During the Anti-Japanese War, differences existed not only between them and the surrenderists of the big landlords and bourgeoisie, but also the diehards among the big bourgeoisie. To date, they remain relatively good allies so "it is entirely necessary to adopt a cautious policy towards the national bourgeoisie." However, the comprador big bourgeoisie in China is divided among several imperialist countries, and during the Anti-Japanese War, a distinction should be made between the pro-Japanese bourgeoisie and the pro-British and American bourgeoisie. The former is surrenderist and must be overthrown. The latter is stubborn and has two faces in the revolution. In addition, many enlightened gentlemen of medium and small landlord backgrounds, i.e., landlords with some capitalist characteristics, still have the enthusiasm to resist Japan, and it is still necessary to unite with them in the resistance against Japan.

The colonial, semi-colonial, and semi-feudal nature of Chinese society, or China's unique national condition, determines that "the nature of China's revolution at this stage is not proletarian socialism, but bourgeois democracy." However, "the bourgeois democratic revolution in China today is no longer the old-fashioned, general bourgeois democratic revolution, which is now outdated, but a new, special bourgeois democratic revolution. This revolution is developing in China and all other colonial and semi-colonial countries, and we call this revolution the New Democratic revolution." This New Democratic Revolution is "the anti-imperialist and anti-feudal revolution of the people led by the proletariat." "Chinese society must go through this revolution to further progress towards a socialist society, otherwise it is impossible." This is the most important conclusion drawn by Mao Zedong in this article.

Mao Zedong further pointed out: the New Democratic Revolution inevitably brings about two results: on one hand, it clears the obstacles on the path of capitalist development, allowing capitalism to develop to a certain extent. On the other hand, there is also the development of socialist factors. These socialist factors include: the growth of the proletariat and the Communist Party in national political power; the peasants, intellectuals, and urban petty bourgeoisie either have admitted or are likely to admit the leadership of the proletariat and the Communist Party; the state-run economy of the Democratic Republic and the cooperative economy of the working people.



With the advantageous international environment, the future of the Chinese revolution can be directed towards socialism, rather than capitalism. The publication of Mao Zedong's work "The Chinese Revolution and the Chinese Communist Party" has greatly opened people's eyes. It makes such a systematic and clear explanation of the nature of Chinese society and a series of fundamental issues of the Chinese Revolution, making the formerly dazzling and complex social phenomena look so orderly and easy to understand. It enables people to stay soberly grasp the basic direction and maintain a consistent pace in the face of complex and changing situations. Its enormous impact at the time and for a long time afterwards is hard to estimate.

The banner of "New Democracy" was raised high. So, what is the specific content of the politics, economy, and culture of New Democracy? What are their characteristics? There are many other issues that need to be further elaborated and explained. In January 1940, the First Representative Assembly of the Shaanxi-Gansu-Ningxia Border Region Cultural Association was held in Yan'an. Mao Tse-tung gave a lengthy lecture at the meeting, entitled "The Politics and Culture of New Democracy." This long lecture was given from afternoon until the lights were lit at night. The five to six hundred spectators crammed into the venue were inspired and attracted by his sharp insights and vivid words, concentrating and listening quietly with fervent emotions, and burst into applause from time to time. A month later, this lecture was first published in the inaugural issue of Chinese Culture and then a few days later in the combined issue 98 and 99 of Liberation, it was retitled as "The Theory of New Democracy". Mao Tse-tung himself said that the main purpose of this speech was "to refute the die-hards", but its significance far exceeded this scope.

In his speech, Mao Tse-tung straightforwardly raised the question of "Where is China heading?", to which he clearly responded: "We want to establish a new China.” He stated: “We Communists, for many years, have strived not only for China's political and economic revolution, but also for China's cultural revolution; the purpose of all these is to build a new society and new nation for the Chinese nation."

In his speech, Mao Zedong systematically explained the theory and program of New Democracy and once again discussed the issue of Sinicisation of Marxism. He stated: "Formalistically absorbing foreign things has caused a lot of harm in China's past. Chinese Communists' application of Marxism in China is the same. It is necessary to perfectly and appropriately unify Marxism's universal truths with the concrete practice of China's revolution. That is to say, it should be combined with national characteristics and passed through a certain national form. It is useless to subjectively and formulaically apply it.”

This way, Mao Zedong outlined the basic characteristics and specific content of the politics, economy, and culture of the New Democratic state, picturing a clear and complete outline of what kind of state the Chinese Communist Party wants to establish.

In this article, Mao Zedong refuted a rhetoric spread by the die-hards: Since you Communists have put the socialist social system to the next stage, and since you have also asserted that "three democracies are necessary for China today, this party is willing to strive for their full realization", then, it's better to temporarily put communism aside.



Mao Zedong wrote: "Communism is the entire ideological system of the proletariat and also a new social system." "The democratic revolution in China cannot succeed without the guidance of communism, let alone the next stage of the revolution." He also specifically analyzed what commonalities and differences exist between the Three Principles of The People and Communism. 
"New Democracy" is an article with a rigorous theoretical system and also a highly polemical article. Mao Zedong took a long time to prepare for this article, repeatedly revised it during the writing process, and sought the opinions of some comrades. More than twenty years later, he once said: "When the first draft of 'New Democracy' was half-written, the idea that the first eighty years is one stage and the last twenty years is another stage in China's nearly a century-long history gradually became clear, so I started rewriting it, and it was only after repeated revisions that the final draft was determined." Even reactionary writers like Ye Qing who always attacked the Communist Party for having no theory of its own had to admit that since he read "New Democracy," "I have since then regarded Mao Zedong as a theoretical scholar of the Communist Party." The article had a significant impact both within and outside the party, giving many people a clear understanding of the current goals of struggle and the future direction of China, attracting more and more people to the banner of New Democracy.
The fundamental difference between the New Democracy revolution and the Old Democracy revolution lies in whether the proletariat has taken the lead. The issue of proletarian leadership has long been raised within the Chinese Communist Party. However, in such a complex environment in China, how can the proletariat achieve leadership? This question, Mao Zedong also went through a long period of thinking and exploration, and made a comprehensive discussion in the article "For the Publication of The Communist." He pointed out: "Eighteen years of experience has taught us that: the united front, armed struggle, and party building are the three magic weapons, the three main magic weapons for the Chinese Communist Party to defeat the enemy in the Chinese revolution." Regarding the relationship among these three, Mao Zedong wrote: "The united front and armed struggle are the two basic weapons to defeat the enemy. The united front is the united front to carry out armed struggle. And the party organization is the brave fighter who takes the united front and the armed struggle as two weapons to charge against the enemy." "Correct understanding of these three issues and their interrelations is equal to correct leadership of the entire Chinese revolution." And now, "we can correctly handle the united front issue, correctly handle the armed struggle issue, and correctly handle the party building issue." This is his important summary of the eighteen-year struggle course of the Chinese Communist Party.
Why was Mao Zedong able to make such great theoretical creations? On the one hand, because he always bases himself in the infinitely rich practice of the Chinese revolutionary struggle, every step of his understanding comes from careful observation and deep thinking about various new situations and new issues in objective actual life, from repeatedly exchanging views with people who understand actual conditions, collecting a wide range of opinions, and never making those out-of-touch personal meditations; on the other hand, because he diligently and strenuously studies Marxist works. His method is: to read Marxist theory is to apply it, to apply it requires frequent reading, focused reading, reading some classic Marxist works, can also understand the development process of Marxism, in the debate and criticism of various theoretical views, deepen the understanding of the universal truth of Marxism. He once said to Zeng Zhi: I flipped through the 'Communist Manifesto' many times when I wrote 'New Democracy'.



Mao Zedong always believed that it was very important to point out the direction and future of the revolution, but having these alone was not enough. It also required the determination of the policies and strategies to achieve these goals. He said: only when the theory and the actual policies are made clear can the problem be comprehensively solved. Of course, what attracted Mao Zedong's attention more at that time was the actual policy issues in the Anti-Japanese National United Front, rather than the specific policies of all aspects of the new China later. However, there are many connections between the two.

By the end of 1940, on the eve of the Southern Anhui Incident, the situation was very serious, and Mao Zedong was very busy. But he did not relax at all in summarizing the party's historical experience, especially the new experience in the strategy of the united front. On February 4th and 13th, the Politburo meeting held serious discussions on these issues. Mao Zedong pointed out at the meeting that summarizing past experiences and lessons generally divided into three periods: the Great Revolution, the Soviet period, and the Anti-Japanese War. The overall mistake was not understanding the long-term and unbalanced nature of the Chinese revolution. Many "left-wing" mistakes were made in the later stage of the Soviet period, because Marxism-Leninism was not linked to reality. He proposed to form a committee to summarize all the policy issues of the party, and some even needed to formulate regulations.

On February 25, based on the comprehensive summary of the Chinese Communist Party's experience in this area, Mao Zedong drafted a party directive on the current situation and policy (the policy part of the directive is included in "On Policy" in Mao Zedong's Selected Works). The directive explicitly pointed out: "Under the current situation of the anti-communist climax, our policy has decisive significance." "In the entire Anti-Japanese War, no matter under what circumstances, our party's policy of the Anti-Japanese National United Front will never change; many policies during the past ten years of the land revolution should not be simply quoted now." The directive criticized some "left-wing" opportunist mistakes that occurred during the period of land revolution, and pointed out: "The current policy of the Anti-Japanese National United Front is not all union denial of struggle, nor all struggle denial of union. It is a policy that combines both union and struggle."

The directive emphasized and stipulated a series of policies for the Anti-Japanese National United Front, including: independent policies under the United Front, which must be unified and independent; independent guerrilla warfare under the unified military strategy, mainly guerrilla warfare, but not giving up mobile warfare under advantageous conditions; "Use contradictions, strive for the majority, oppose the minority, defeat each", adhere to the principle of "reasonable, beneficial, and restrained"; in the enemy-occupied area and the Nationalist Government-controlled area, adopt the policy of "sheltering the elite, long-term ambush, accumulating strength, waiting for opportunities"; develop progressive forces in domestic relations, strive for middle forces, isolate stubborn forces; and so on.

The directive, based on specific class analysis, especially emphasized the need to make various distinctions, such as differentiating big landlords and bourgeoisie who opposed the Anti-Japanese War from those who advocated for it; distinguishing between the big landlords and bourgeois who were in favour of the Anti-Japanese War but wavering, advocating unity but anti-communist, and the lesser dual-natured national bourgeoisie, small and medium landlords, and enlightened gentry. Internationally, different imperialist countries also need to be distinguished. And so on. And it clearly pointed out: "Establish our policies on these differences. The above various different policies are all derived from these differences in class relations."

Regarding various specific policies, the directive also stipulated clear specific policies on power organization, labor, land, taxation, counter-espionage, people's rights, economy, culture, education, military and other aspects according to the strategic principles in the United Front.



Final Instruction: "The strategic principles outlined above and the many specific policies stipulated by these principles within the united front must be resolutely implemented by the entire Party. At the time when Japan intensified its invasion of China and the domestic large landlords and bourgeoisie were implementing high-pressure policies and military attacks against the Communists and the people, it is only by implementing the aforementioned strategic principles and specific policies that we can persist in resisting Japan, develop the united front, gain the sympathy of the Chinese people, and strive for an improvement in the situation."

The establishment of the theory of New Democracy and the determination of a series of guidelines and policies for the Anti-Japanese National United Front marked the maturity of Mao Zedong Thought, the combination of Marxism with the practice of the Chinese revolution. After eighteen years of trials and tribulations, Mao Zedong finally pointed out the correct path for the Chinese people to achieve the victory of the democratic revolution and build a New China suitable for China's national conditions.

As Mao Zedong once said in his early years, "Doctrine is like a flag. Only when the flag is raised can everyone have hope and know where to go". This flag should be distinctive in color, simple and clear, and should have very rich and definite connotations, so that it is easier for more people to understand and accept. Since the Chinese people began to accept Marxism from around the May Fourth Movement, it took twenty years of hard exploration and twisting experiences to nicely combine Marxism with the practice of the Chinese revolution. During the Anti-Japanese war, the flag of "New Democracy" was independently raised, thus giving more people "hope" and "knowledge on where to go". This is a major event in Chinese history. Not only did it have a significant impact during and after the Anti-Japanese war, but it also played a huge guiding role in the subsequent Chinese revolution and construction.


On the New Democracy theory, the Chinese Communist Party's thoughts on the theory of the revolutionary road, the construction of people's armed forces, the strategy and tactics of the people's war, the strategy of the united front, economic thoughts and cultural work have been enriched and gradually completed. This shows that after the party's failure from the great revolution to the rise of the land war, from the defeat of the fifth "encirclement and suppression" to the rise of the anti-Japanese war, it accumulated rich revolutionary experience. During the Anti-Japanese War, the party faced a complicated international situation and domestic environment. Correctly answering new problems that arose in the national and class struggle accumulated many new experiences, which further helped us understand the laws of the Chinese revolution. As stated by Mao Zedong: "During the Anti-Japanese period, we only established a comprehensive line and a complete set of specific policies based on the situation. It was only then that we recognized the Kingdom of the Chinese Democratic Revolution and that we gained freedom." Obviously, during the Anti-Japanese War, Mao Zedong evolved the theory of Marxism-Leninism with the practice of the Chinese revolution into a new stage, forming the theoretical system of the New Democratic Revolution. It expanded in many aspects and levels such as politics, economy, military, culture, and party building. The significance of the tested ideas and theories of New Democracy is as follows:
First, it systematically summarized the historical experience of constructing White Areas and rural revolutionary bases, and correctly formulated the party's struggle strategy in Japanese-occupied areas, the Kuomintang-ruled areas, and the guidelines and policies for economic, political, and cultural construction in liberated areas.

The struggle of encircling cities from rural areas, with rural revolutionary bases as the main base, and armed struggle as the main form of struggle. "But just because we focus on the armed struggle, doesn't mean we can abandon other forms of struggle; on the contrary, without the cooperation of various forms of struggle apart from the armed struggle, the armed struggle cannot win. Emphasizing work on rural bases does not mean we can abandon urban work and work in other large rural areas still under enemy control. On the contrary, without urban work and other rural work, rural bases would be isolated, and the revolution would fail.


For this reason, under the leadership of Mao Zedong, the central party systematically summarized the lessons and experience of the party's work in the White-controlled areas since its foundation. Based on the semi-colonial and semi-feudal characteristics of Chinese society, it creatively formulated a complete set of struggle strategies suitable for the Japanese-controlled areas and Kuomintang-controlled areas; and systematically summarized the experience and lessons of the construction of rural revolutionary bases since 1927 to the full outbreak of the Anti-Japanese War. They formulated policies suitable for the actual conditions of economic, political, and cultural construction in the liberated areas during the Anti-Japanese War. The implementation of these struggle strategies and policies, combined directly and indirectly with the massive anti-Japanese guerrilla warfare launched by hundreds of millions of soldiers and civilians in the enemy rear, made the Anti-Japanese War a great revolution nationwide. 

Secondly, the party's construction problems were systematically summarized and the rectification movement was created, which unified the understanding of the entire party based on Marxism-Leninism and Mao Zedong Thought. 

On the eve of the Anti-Japanese War and during the War, under the leadership of Mao Zedong, the party central committee systematically summarized the experience and lessons of the party's construction issues and strengthened the party's construction ideologically. It was proposed to summarize the experience and lessons of the Chinese revolution based on the basic principles of dialectical materialism and to strengthen the party's construction by rectifying the party's ideological line; to strengthen the party's construction by linking the united front, armed struggle, and other political lines with Chinese characteristics; and to creatively launch the rectification movement against subjectivism, sectarianism, and the party's eight legs, unifying the entire party's understanding based on the universal principles of Marxism-Leninism and the specific practice of the Chinese revolution.

Thirdly, Mao Zedong Thought was officially recognized as the guiding ideology of the entire party. The Seventh National Congress of the Party was the most important representative congress of the Chinese Communist Party in the period of democratic revolution after the founding of the Party. The Congress summarized the historical experience of the tortuous development of China's democratic revolution over more than 20 years, formulated the correct program and strategy, overcame the wrong thoughts within the party, and unified the whole party's understanding based on Marxism-Leninism and Mao Zedong Thought, achieving unprecedented unity within the party. That congress laid the foundation for the victory of the new democratic revolution nationwide. The new party constitution adopted by the Congress solemnly stipulated: The Chinese Communist Party, with Mao Zedong Thought, the unity of Marxist-Leninist theory and the practice of the Chinese revolution, serves as the pointer for all its work. This means that Mao Zedong Thought had then developed and matured into the guiding ideology recognized by the entire party, and the entire party had achieved unprecedented unity and unity based on Marxism-Leninism and Mao Zedong Thought. From the Zunyi Conference to the Anti-Japanese War, the entire party's understanding gradually unified until it was completely unified, and finally completely unified in Mao Zedong Thought, which reflects the objective laws of the Chinese democratic revolution. It is precisely because the entire party operates according to Mao Zedong Thought, that is, according to the objective laws of the Chinese democratic revolution, that the party's team is tidy, the pace is consistent, and it can lead hundreds of millions of people to persist in anti-Japanese aggression for eight years, under the conditions where the comparison of enemy and our forces is extremely disparate. This made the Chinese Communist Party and the people's revolutionary forces achieve unprecedented development, and combined with the anti-fascist war of the Soviet Union and the people of other countries, finally defeated the Japanese aggressor. If it can be said that all the revolutionary struggles of the Chinese people for nearly a hundred years have suffered failures or setbacks, then the Anti-Japanese War is different, the Chinese people finally achieved the ultimate victory. This is related to the fact that there are much more favorable conditions internationally and domestically than in the past, but more importantly, the entire party, under the guidance of Mao Zedong Thought, correctly used these favorable conditions and overcame unfavorable conditions. Mao Zedong Thought led the Anti-Japanese War to achieve a great victory and laid a solid foundation for the victory of New Democracy throughout China.




During the Liberation War and after the establishment of New China, under the guidance of Mao Zedong's Thought, the people all over the country carried out a large-scale, intense Liberation War, overthrowing the reactionary rule of the Kuomintang, establishing the People's Democratic Dictatorship in New China, and smoothly transitioning from New Democracy to socialism. This led to significant achievements in the socialist transformation and construction, opening new areas of development for Mao Zedong's ideology.

After the victory of the Anti-Japanese War, the Chinese Communist Party anticipated two possible scenarios influenced by various domestic and international factors. The first possibility was a peaceful social and political reform, while the other was a civil war led by the Kuomintang, following the peaceful negotiations initiated by the Chinese Communist Party. The party presented a strategy of using both 'hands of revolution' to overcome both 'hands of counter-revolution'. This ensured that the party could timely engage in peaceful and legal struggles, gain public support and sympathy from the moderates in the first scenario, and effectively fight against the military attacks from the Kuomintang in the latter scenario. They aimed to expose the Chiang Kai-shek government for sabotaging peace and launching a civil war, proving the necessity of overthrowing it and establishing New China.

This strategy of using both 'hands of revolution' not only ensured readiness for self-defence without compromising on the desire for peace but also made the struggle more flexible, keeping the party in a politically proactive position and winning over potential moderate supporters, to thoroughly isolate a tiny reactionary clique led by Chiang Kai-shek. This strategic transformation from defense to offense and the development of ten military principles, answered how the People's Liberation Army could defeat Chiang's Army's attacks under unfavorable odds. Mao Zedong explicitly stated: "We not only must defeat Chiang Kai-shek, but we are also capable of defeating him."

By late December 1947, at a meeting called by the Central Committee of the Communist Party, Mao Zedong highlighted that the main force of the People's Liberation Army had already moved into the Kuomintang-ruled areas. This was a historical turning point. To utterly eliminate Chiang Kai-shek's reactionary army and finally secure a nationwide victory, Mao Zedong systematically proposed the ten military principles for the People's Liberation Army. These principles predicted the development trend of the war and summarized the long-term combat experience of the army. Following these principles, the People's Liberation Army not only thwarted the frenzied invasion of Chiang Kai-shek's army into the liberated areas but also successfully transitioned from strategic defense to strategic offense, ultimately leading to the decisive battle.




The launch of the land reform movement and the consolidation and expansion of the people's democratic united front, during the national liberation war, the party central committee led by Mao Zedong initiated an unprecedented land reform movement, further consolidating the worker-peasant alliance; At the same time, on the basis of the worker-peasant alliance led by the working class, all people who could be united and strived for were united, not only the national bourgeoisie, but also patriots who had split from the Kuomintang ruling group, and enlightened gentlemen who had split from the feudal landlord class. This made the people's democratic united front unprecedentedly consolidated and strengthened, making the Chiang Kai-shek group completely isolated and helpless. In May 1948, the Communist Party of China proposed to convene a political consultative conference without reactionary elements to discuss the establishment of a democratic coalition government. The call immediately received enthusiastic responses from various democratic parties, people's organizations, and non-partisan democrats. They sent representatives to the liberated areas one after another to prepare for the new CCP with the Communist Party of China. In the climax of the strategic decisive victory of the People's Liberation Army, various democratic parties declared their agreement with the Communist Party of China's industrial and commercial policies and land reform policies; recognized that the Kuomintang's reactionary rule was the source of the reactionary civil war and the main obstacle to domestic peace and democracy; pointed out that American imperialism was the enemy of the Chinese people. They jointly issued a statement, publicly declaring that they have abandoned the middle road and accepted the leadership of the Communist Party of China. This is a major victory for the Communist Party of China in effectively managing its relationship with the bourgeois. In September 1949, the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference officially opened. The Communist Party of China, various democratic parties, various people's organizations, various departments of the People's Liberation Army, various regions, various ethnic minorities, overseas Chinese and other patriots all sent representatives to the meeting. They respectively represent the working class, the peasant class, the urban petty bourgeoisie, the national bourgeoisie, and all other patriots, in fact they have the nature of representing the Chinese people. Therefore, the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference was formally established as a concrete organizational form of the people's democratic united front. Through this meeting, the Communist Party of China formulated a common program, uniting all the democratic classes and people of all ethnic groups in the country into this organization, in order to complete the great historical task of finally overthrowing the Kuomintang's reactionary rule and establishing the People's Republic of China. By this time, the people's democratic united front opposing imperialism, feudalism, and bureaucrat capitalism had "developed into the establishment of a people's democratic dictatorship led by the working class and based on the worker-peasant alliance." The reorganization of the party's troops, the strengthening and improvement of the party's leadership, the party central committee led by Mao Zedong during the entire liberation war, always took party building as a central link related to the success or failure of the revolution and took effective measures. On the one hand, a campaign to rectify the party and reorganize the party's rural grassroots organizations has been carried out; On the one hand, the central and unified leadership of the party central committee has been strengthened, making the party, government, and military leadership organs highly unified in the implementation of policies and disciplines, while paying attention to perfecting the party committee system, promoting the democratic tradition within the party, and launching a democratic movement within the party and the army. In this way, the work of the party's grassroots organizations and leading organs at all levels has been strengthened and improved, further consolidating and developing the ideological, political, and organizational unity and solidarity achieved at the seventh national congress of the party, and effectively ensuring the victory of the national revolution from the leadership of the party. The party's struggle strategy in the Kuomintang ruled area and the principle and policy of receiving and managing the city during the national liberation war, the mass struggle in the Kuomintang ruled area led by the Communist Party of China achieved unprecedented development, truly forming an important front behind the Chiang Kai-shek group. The opening and development of the second front first effectively coordinated the People's Liberation Army to crush the Jiang army's invasion of the liberated areas; With the strategic offensive, strategic decisive battle and strategic pursuit of the People's Liberation Army successively unfolding, they effectively coordinated with the Communist Party and the People's Liberation Army to protect and take over the central cities that the enemy had been entrenched for a long time.



This is the continuous development of the New Democracy theory on the policies and strategies for the work in white areas. Regarding the People's Democratic Dictatorship and the theory and policy of transition from New Democracy to Socialism, the People's Democratic Dictatorship is the bond linking the minimum and maximum program of the Chinese Communist Party, and is the political condition for the transition from New Democracy to Socialism. It is both a government of New Democratic nature and a government that can smoothly transition to proletarian dictatorship. This transition can be fully achieved under peaceful conditions, and there is no need for a violent revolution to overthrow a reactionary regime like Russia from the February Revolution to the October Revolution. The reactionary regime of the Kuomintang has been destroyed by the revolutionary war. The newly established People's Democratic Dictatorship in China, whether during the New Democratic Revolution or the Socialist Revolution, is a people's government led by the working class and based on the alliance of workers and peasants. When transitioning to the socialist revolution, the working and peasant masses would not overthrow their own government. This is another new development of the basic principles of Marxism-Leninism on armed seizure of power by Chinese Communists represented by Mao Zedong. Mao Zedong emphasized: Summarizing our experience, focus on one point, that is, the People's Democratic Dictatorship based on the alliance of workers and peasants led by the working class (through the Communist Party). This dictatorship must unite with international revolutionary forces. This is our formula, our main experience, and our main program. We can rely entirely on the weapon of People's Democratic Dictatorship, unite all people in the country except the reactionaries, and steadily reach our destination.


In modern China, the country is in a semi-colonial and semi-feudal society which is the basic national situation, and it determines that the revolution must go in two steps, take the route of armed struggle, and surround the cities from the countryside. Mao Zedong said: "Only by understanding the nature of Chinese society can one recognize the nature of the Chinese revolution, the tasks of the Chinese revolution, the motive force of the Chinese revolution, and the future and transition of the Chinese revolution." Therefore, "recognizing the nature of Chinese society means understanding China's national conditions is the basis of understanding all revolutionary issues." The main task of the first Party Congress in 921 was to establish the Chinese Communist Party and determine the nature of the Chinese Communist Party. At this time, China's communists had not yet deeply understood the national conditions of China and the special characteristics of China's revolution. They only started from the world's overall situation after the victory of the October Revolution, and concluded that China's revolution was bound to be a socialist revolution led by the proletariat. During the year after the founding of the Chinese Communist Party, through learning and mastering Marxism, and through the practice of revolutionary struggle, it had a further understanding of the international and domestic situation and the social conditions of China. In early 1922, the Chinese Communists participated in the first congress of the Communist Parties and national revolutionary groups of the Far East called by the Comintern and accepted Lenin's theory on the problem of national colonies. On June 15, 1922, the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China issued "The Views of the Chinese Communist Party on the Current Situation". This document focuses on analyzing the history and current situation of international imperialism and China's feudal warlords colluding with each other to oppress the Chinese people after the Xinhai Revolution, pointing out that China is a "semi-independent feudal country" under the rule of international imperialism and its local feudal warlords and bureaucrats; the declaration of the second Congress of the Communist Party of China, based on a further analysis of the social nature of China, for the first time put forward the democratic revolutionary program of anti-imperialism and anti-feudalism. After the Second Congress of the Communist Party of China, Chinese communists continued to discuss the nature of Chinese society.



In 1923, Chen Duxiu used the concept of "semi-colony" in his article "Chinese National Revolution and Various Social Classes". He believed that the revolution of a semi-colonial country had a dual significance for foreign nationalist revolution and domestic democratic revolution. The aim was to seek economic independence from foreign intervention and political freedom internally. This is a unique characteristic of the national revolution in semi-colonial countries. The declaration of the third congress of the Communist Party of China (CPC) had referred to China's democratic revolution as the "national revolution", emphasizing that "semi-colonial China" should center its work around the national revolution, distinguishing it from the bourgeois democratic revolutions in European countries. In the same summer, Mao Zedong also used the term "semi-colony" in his political essay "Beijing Coup and Merchants". He pointed out that the semi-colonial Chinese politics is a dual political oppression in which domestic warlords and foreign imperialism collude against the entire national population. The historical mission of the Chinese National Revolution is to use the power of the people to overthrow the warlords and foreign imperialism. 

In 1926, Cai Hesen used the concept of "semi-colonial and semi-feudal China" in "The Development of the History of the Communist Party of China". It was precisely on the basis of a relatively accurate understanding of the nature of modern Chinese society and revolution that young Chinese Communists established a revolutionary united front with Sun Yat-sen's Chinese Nationalist Party, spearheading a fervent climax of the national revolution. However, at this time, the Chinese Communist Party's understanding of the laws governing Chinese society and the development of the Chinese revolution was not fully conscious. In the summer of 1927, the national revolution ultimately failed. Chiang Kai-shek, representing the new rightists of the Nationalist Party, established a new regime in Nanjing.

What kind of regime is the Nationalist government represented by Chiang Kai-shek? What kind of society exists under this regime? Has the semi-colonial and semi-feudal nature of China fundamentally changed? This is a question that must be resolved first in the revival of the revolution by Chinese communists. At the time, people had different understandings of this issue. Some said that Chinese society was still a feudal society, others said that China had become a capitalist society, or a pre-capitalist society; and of course, there were still those who insisted that China was still a semi-colonial society, etc. The sixth congress of the Chinese Communist Party, convened in June and July of 928, analyzed the political and economic situation in China after the failure of the national revolution. It pointed out: on one hand, the real unification of China was not completed, China had not been liberated from the iron heel of imperialism, and the Chinese revolution was still a semi-colonial revolution; on the other hand, the private land ownership system of the landlord class was not overthrown, and all semi-feudal remnants were not cleared, so the nature of the current stage of the Chinese revolution was still the bourgeois democratic revolution. In February 1929, the Chinese Communist Party officially put forward the complete concept of "semi-colonial and semi-feudal" in its own documents. However, not long after the sixth congress of the Chinese Communist Party, a dispute arose within the party over this issue, which had basically been settled. Chen Duxiu and others accepted Trotsky's erroneous position on the China issue, believing that the failure of the national revolution showed that the bourgeoisie had won and that the remnants of feudalism had been hit for the last time. The Nationalist government in Nanjing was a regime centered on and led by the bourgeoisie, and Chinese society had become a society where capitalism prevails and is expected to develop peacefully. The proletariat should only carry out the socialist revolution after capitalism has fully developed, currently it can only conduct legitimate activities centered on the slogan "National Assembly". This essentially denied that Chinese society is still a semi-colonial and semi-feudal society, denied the necessity of continuing anti-imperialist and anti-feudal democratic revolution, and became the right-wing erroneous view of canceling the revolution.



At the same time, influenced by Stalin and the Communist International, some leaders in the Chinese Communist Party believed that the betrayal of the revolution by Chiang Kai-shek and the right-wing of the Kuomintang represented the entirety of China's bourgeoisie, and the Kuomintang regime was essentially a bourgeois government. They advocated that the Chinese revolution should completely oppose not only the bourgeoisie but also the petty bourgeoisie, conflating the opposition to capitalism with to imperialism and feudalism, thus blurring the definite boundaries between democratic revolution and socialist revolution. This adventurous "leftist" perspective was viewed as an error. Whether it was the right view or the "left" one, they all exaggerated the capitalist components of Chinese society under the rule of the Kuomintang, misjudging Chiang Kai-shek's regime as representing bourgeois interests, showing a misunderstanding of the fundamental nature of Chinese society. Importantly, their mistaken understanding on the question of societal nature, led to two totally different conclusions concerning the nature of the Chinese revolution- one advocating to cancel the national democratic revolution, the other pushing to outstrip it. Thus, understanding the true nature of Chinese society is extremely significant for a revolutionary party.



Just as the Chinese Communists were seeking new understanding on the nature of Chinese society and revolution, intellectuals of the KMT were also frequently publishing articles, discussing the nature of Chinese society. Tao Xisheng was one of them. Between 1928 and 1929, Tao wrote numerous articles. Sometimes he described modern Chinese society as a feudal society under imperialistic rule. At other times, he argued that China was no longer a feudal state but a society primarily shaped by literati and peasants before the rise of capitalism after the collapse of feudalism. In other instances, he defined Chinese society as late feudalism from a feudal perspective, and as pre-capitalism from the capitalistic view. His contradictory and vague statements about the nature of Chinese society were an attempt to sow confusion and oppose the thriving peasant revolution under communist leadership.

In that context, a debate about the nature of Chinese society ensued, lasting from the late 1920s to the mid-1930s, a period of nearly ten years. The discussion shifted from the nature of Chinese society to the nature of its rural society and expanded to its social history. Marxist theorists and progressive social scientists actively engaged in the debate under the direct influence of the Chinese Communist Party. They analyzed modern Chinese society and revolution from the standpoint of Marxism-Leninism, refuting erroneous perspectives, particularly those held by Tao Xisheng and the Trotskyists, and preliminarily demonstrating the semi-colonial, semi-feudal nature of Chinese society. They argued that the nature of the Chinese revolution could only be understood by distinguishing the unique economic structure of Chinese society. They pointed out that China was a semi-colony of imperialist countries. Imperialist aggression had dealt severe blows to China's feudal natural economy thereby initiating capitalist development. Simultaneously, imperialism colluded with Chinese feudal forces to impede the development of national capital and the bankruptcy of national industry was widespread. In China, semi-feudal relations still prevailed. At the time, their arguments were preliminary but helped clarify amidst the plurality of opinions about China's social situation that Chinese society was semi-colonial and semi-feudal. The Chinese Communist Party successfully disseminated this scientific judgment beginning with this debate, and its impact was huge. The document "Chinese Revolution and the Chinese Communist Party", written cooperatively by Mao Zedong, Zhang Wentian, and Li Weihan in December 1939, represents the Party's highest level of understanding on these issues.



"The Chinese Revolution and the Chinese Communist Party" analyzes the roughly three thousand years of feudal society that lasted from the Zhou and Qin dynasties. It points out: "Since the Opium War in 1840, China has gradually turned into a semi-colonial and semi-feudal society. Since the Japanese imperialist armed invasion of China after the 918 Incident in 1931, China again turned into a colonial, semi-colonial, and semi-feudal society." Mao Zedong further explained in "On New Democracy" written in January 1940: "Since the foreign capitalist invasion of China, and as capitalist elements gradually grew in Chinese society, China has gradually turned into a colonial, semi-colonial, semi-feudal society. Today's China, in areas occupied by Japan, is a colonial society; in areas ruled by the Kuomintang, it is essentially a semi-colonial society; whether in areas occupied by Japan or the Kuomintang, feudal and semi-feudal systems predominate. This is the nature of current Chinese society, this is the current situation in China."

The evolution of modern Chinese society from being entirely feudal to colonial, semi-colonial, and semi-feudal is not accidental. This societal transition went through a long, slow, and complicated process. Recognizing this helps us to deeply understand the nature of modern Chinese society, and correctly evaluate and understand the role of foreign capitalism in China in the past century.

"The Chinese Revolution and the Chinese Communist Party" analyzes the evolution of modern Chinese society from two aspects: one is China's evolution from a fully feudal society to a semi-feudal one; the other is China's evolution from an independent sovereign nation to a semi-colonial, colonial nation. These are two historical processes that occurred in the same space and time. The book believes that the main cause of these changes is the invasion of foreign capitalism. "When the imperialist powers invaded China, they prompted the disintegration of Chinese feudal society and the emergence of capitalist elements, turning a feudal society into a semi-feudal one. But on the other hand, they cruelly ruled China, transforming an independent China into a semi-colonial and colonial China."

So, what role did foreign capitalism play in promoting China's evolution from a fully feudal society to a semi-feudal one? The book states: "Foreign capitalism had a great disintegrating influence on China's socioeconomic conditions. On the one hand, it destroyed the basis of China's self-sufficient natural economy, devastating urban handicrafts and peasant home-based handicrafts. On the other hand, it promoted the development of China's urban and rural commodity economies." Both the destruction of the natural economy's foundations and the development of urban and rural commodity economies created the conditions for the emergence and growth of the Chinese bourgeoisie. But since imperialism controlled China's economic lifelines and politics, the Chinese national capital that emerged in the middle of the last century was in extremely difficult conditions and could not normally develop and grow. It never "became the main form of China's socioeconomic structure", and it did not lead China into a capitalist society.

Not only was it squeezed out by foreign capital with various privileges, but it was also powerless to resist the pre-capitalist exploitative regimens that still dominated Chinese society. Thus, modern China changed the historical direction it should have followed, gradually evolving into a semi-feudal society where a "weak capitalist economy existed simultaneously with a severe semi-feudal economy, and some modern industries and commercial cities existed simultaneously with the stagnant vast rural areas".

However, the aforementioned changes are only one aspect of the transitions in modern Chinese society. The book further points out: "The goal of the imperial powers invading China is certainly not to transform feudal China into capitalist China. The goals of the imperialist powers are contrary, they want to turn China into their semi-colonies and colonies..."



If it's said that promoting the development of capitalist buds in China and making China a semi-feudal society was not the original intention and consciousness of imperialist powers, then turning China into their colony, putting China in a position of arbitrary humiliation and slaughter, is determined by the nature of imperialism. Marx and Engels pointed out in "The Communist Manifesto" that the need to constantly expand product sales drives the bourgeoisie around the world. "It must settle everywhere, start businesses everywhere, and establish contacts everywhere." It destroys "all long walls" with cheap goods. Just as it subordinates the countryside to the city, it subordinates uncivilized and semi-civilized countries to civilized countries, nationalities of farmers to the bourgeoisie, and the East to the West. In order to conquer the vast and hollow-strong China, the imperialist powers have exhausted all means and adopted various methods and ways in the last hundred years. "The Chinese Revolution and the Chinese Communist Party" combines the history of Chinese and foreign relations in the past century, summarizing imperialism's ten ways and means of aggressing and oppressing China from military, political, economic, cultural, and diplomatic aspects, vividly depicting the bloody picture of turning a feudal China into a semi-feudal, semi-colonial, and colonial China.

From this we can understand that the invasion of China by imperialist powers, on one hand, promoted the disintegration of Chinese feudal society, stimulated the occurrence of capitalist elements in China, and transformed a feudal society into a semi-feudal society; on the other hand, they ruled China brutally, turning an independent China into a semi-colonial and colonial China. Combining the situation in these two aspects, our colony, semi-colony, semi-feudal society has the following characteristics:

Firstly, the natural economic foundation of self-sufficiency in the feudal era was destroyed; however, the foundation of the feudal exploitation system—the exploitation of the landlord class on peasants—not only remains, but also combines with the exploitation of comprador capital and usurious capital, taking a clear advantage in China's socio-economic life.

Secondly, national capitalism has developed to some extent and played a significant role in China's political and cultural life; however, it has not become the main form of China's social economy, its power is very weak, and most of it has more or less connection with foreign imperialism and domestic feudalism.

Thirdly, the autocratic regime of emperors and nobles was overthrown, first replaced by the rule of the warlord bureaucracy of the landlord class, followed by the dictatorship of a coalition of the landlord class and the large bourgeoisie. In the occupied areas, it was the rule of Japanese imperialism and its puppets.

Fourthly, imperialism not only manipulates China's financial and economic lifelines but also controls China's political and military power. In the occupied areas, all are monopolized by Japanese imperialism.

Fifth, because China is under the rule or semi-rule of many imperialist countries, because China is actually in a long-term state of disunity, and because China's land is vast, China's economic, political, and cultural development show extreme imbalance.

Sixth, due to the double oppression of imperialism and feudalism, especially due to Japan's large-scale aggression, the vast majority of Chinese people, especially peasants, are becoming increasingly impoverished and even bankrupt, living in dire poverty and without political rights. The degree of poverty and lack of freedom among the Chinese people is rare in the world.



These are the characteristics of the colonial, semi-colonial, and semi-feudal Chinese society. It is determined mainly by the forces of Japanese imperialism and other imperialisms, a result of the combination between foreign imperialism and domestic feudalism. 

Mao Zedong repeatedly emphasized that only by clarifying the nature of Chinese society, can the nature and tasks of the Chinese revolution be clearly recognized, the targets and motivation of the revolution be understood, and the future and changes of the revolution be predicted. In short, only by recognizing the social nature of China can we scientifically grasp the basic laws of the development of modern Chinese society and correctly solve a series of basic problems in the Chinese revolution. Following this, Mao Zedong repeatedly discussed the semi-colonial and semi-feudal nature of modern Chinese society in his works such as "On New Democracy". 



The so-called revolution in two steps refers to dividing the Chinese revolution into democratic revolution and socialist revolution. "The first step is to change this colonial, semi-colonial and semi-feudal social form and transform it into an independent democratic society. The second step is to advance the revolution and establish a socialist society." In the history of the Chinese Communist Party, this thought of strategic significance had undergone a very tortuous process from its proposition to its finalization. In fact, whether this strategic thought can be correctly understood and interpreted not only affects the practice of the Chinese revolution but also directly influences the development of the revolutionary theory of the Chinese Communist Party. 

After the establishment of the Chinese Communist Party, it used the basic principles of Marxism-Leninism as a weapon to observe the fate of the nation and initially answered the problems encountered in the Chinese revolution. In July 1922, the second grand assembly of the party scientifically analyzed the international and domestic situation and the social nature of China. It considered imperialism and feudalism as the main enemies at that time. The Chinese revolution must first overthrow the rule of imperialism and feudalism to achieve victory in the democratic revolution, then carry out the socialist revolution. Therefore, the grand assembly for the first time put forward the thorough anti-imperialist and anti-feudal democratic revolution program in its declaration, that is to eliminate civil strife, overthrow warlords, and build domestic peace; overthrow the oppression of international imperialism to achieve complete independence of the Chinese nation; unify China (including the three eastern provinces) into a genuine democratic republic. The grand assembly reiterated the Party's highest program: "Organize the proletariat, use class struggle means, establish a dictatorship of the workers and peasants, eradicate the private property system, and gradually achieve a communist society." Closely related to the formulation of the democratic revolution program is the idea proposed by the second grand assembly of the party that the Chinese revolution should be divided into two steps. The declaration of the grand assembly pointed out: the struggle of the proletariat must be divided into two steps, the first is "to assist the democratic revolutionary movement", and the second is "to implement 'the dictatorship of the proletariat in alliance with poor peasants'". "If the organization strength and combat capability of the proletariat are strong, this second step of struggle can be immediately successful after the victory of the democratic revolution." The second grand assembly of the party determined that the Chinese revolution should be carried out in two stages, and the proletariat should first strive to complete the bourgeois democratic revolution. Compared with the claim of directly carrying out a socialist revolution in China, this is a significant progress, which has played a role in promoting the party and the workers' class to participate in the democratic revolution. However, the second assembly of the party did not clarify the relationship between the democratic revolution and the proletariat revolution.



Although the Party's two major documents pointed out that "Workers are under the extreme oppression of Chinese and foreign capitalists, and the revolutionary movement will develop on its own. The result of this development will turn into the revolutionary leader army that overturns world capitalist imperialism in China," the basic understanding of the Second Congress of the Communist Party of China is that the proletariat is merely "assisting" and "helping" the democratic revolutionary movement, of course, this "assistance" and "help", is not "the proletariat subjugating the bourgeoisie", but is "a necessary step to not prolong the life of feudalism and cultivate the real power of the proletariat". The Second Congress also believes that: "After the democratic revolution succeeds, the proletariat only gains some freedoms and rights", and "the naive bourgeoisie will rapidly develop and be in a confrontational position with the proletariat". At this point, the proletariat must carry out the "second step struggle". For this issue, Chen Duxiu made further elaborations in 1923. He believes, "The proletariat clearly knows that the success of such a democratic revolution is indeed a victory for the bourgeoisie, but the naive proletariat currently only has the opportunity to gain some freedom and expand its capabilities in the struggle of this victory, so cooperation with the revolutionary bourgeoisie is also the necessary path for the Chinese proletariat at present. ""Under normal circumstances, the victory of the national revolution is naturally the victory of the bourgeoisie; it is naturally the bourgeoisie that seizes power". The deficiencies of the Second Congress were later developed by Chen Duxiu into the "second revolution theory", which became the theoretical root of the right-leaning mistake within the party.

Regarding the relationship between the democratic revolution and the socialist revolution, or the question of the future of the Chinese revolution, the Fourth Congress of the Party from January 11 to January 22, 1925, also touched upon it. The fourth congress of the party stated that the future of the Chinese revolution is a non-capitalist future (originally there was a draft resolution, which was removed after discussion). However, compared with the understanding of the second congress of the party, the fourth congress deepened its proposition on the issue that the Chinese revolution must take two steps. First, it basically clarified the idea that the proletariat must bear the responsibility of leading the Chinese revolution, pointing out that: "The Chinese national revolutionary movement, must have the strongest participation of the most revolutionary proletariat, and take on a leading position in order to achieve victory." Second, it questions whether the bourgeoisie will seize power after the victory of the democratic revolution. These two points are interconnected. If we think about these two points together, we would have reached a clear conclusion: the future of the proletariat-led democratic revolution is not capitalism. But the documents of the Fourth Congress of the Party show that its understanding is still unclear. The resolution points out: "After the victory of the national revolution, whether it will be followed by the worker's revolution, whether it must go through the bourgeois democratic system, depends on the extent of the proletariat's own class revolutionary preparation at that time and the objective conditions of society at that time, as well as the political situation in the world at that time, which will all have a great impact." Here, it raises the question of how the success of the democratic revolution and the proletarian revolution are linked, which is obviously different from the "Second revolution theory" that separates the two. But this statement only questions the insertion of a capitalist stage between the democratic revolution and the socialist revolution, "whether it must go through the bourgeoisie's democratic system" still depends on the situation. In other words, it does not rule out the possibility of a capitalist future. At the same time, the Fourth Congress did not provide specific answers to how to achieve the leadership of the proletariat, especially how to deal with various complex issues in the struggle for leadership with the bourgeoisie; and it still lacks sufficient understanding of the extreme importance of the issue of power and arms. These weaknesses have gradually become evident in the development of the revolutionary movement afterward.



Despite the Fourth Congress of the Party, where some Marxists within the Party, such as Deng Zhongxia, Zhou Enlai, Li Dazhao, Mao Zedong, Liu Shaoqi, Qu Qiubai, etc., published articles one after another. Using Marxism as guidance, they criticized the erroneous theories of the right wing of the Kuomintang and Chen Duxiu from different perspectives, analyzed the economic status and political attitudes of various classes in Chinese society, studied the practical issues and characteristics of the Chinese revolution, and actively explored the basic laws of the Chinese revolution. For example, Deng Zhongxia pointed out in "Several Important Issues in the Renaissance of Labor" published in May 1925: "The proletariat participates in the National Revolution, not as a subordinate of any bourgeoisie, but with their own class purposes; in the National Revolution we should prioritize our class interests." Mao Zedong published "Analysis of Different Classes in Chinese Society" in "Revolution" in October 1925, "Analysis of Different Classes in Chinese Farmers and Their Attitudes Towards Revolution" in "Chinese Farmers" in January 1926, "Reasons for the Separation of the Right Wing of the Kuomintang and Its Impact on the Revolutionary Future" in "Political Weekly", and in March, "Analysis of Different Classes in Chinese Society" was published in "China Youth". Employing the class analysis method of Marxism, it analyzed the various classes in Chinese society, expounded on the tasks, objectives, leadership, motive force, and prospects of the Chinese revolution, and put forward the basic ideas of the New Democratic Revolution. However, these correct views did not dominate the party's leadership until the end of 1926, the "Two Revolutions Theory" was still the majority and formal opinion of the Communist Party's leadership. The fatal mistake of the "Two Revolutions Theory" was to voluntarily give up or not strive for leadership in the revolution by the proletariat and the Communist Party, committing a right-leaning mistake at a critical moment in the revolution, leading the first major revolution to failure.

Second, the systematic formation of the "Two Steps" strategic conception. At the end of 1926, the resolution on the issue of the Chinese situation passed by the Seventh Enlarged Meeting of the Executive Committee of the Communist International stated: "Although the current stage of the development of the Chinese revolution, historically speaking, is of the nature of a bourgeois democratic revolution, it must be characterized by a broad social movement. The outcome of the Chinese revolution does not necessarily create a social and political environment that promotes the development of capitalism. The process of the Chinese revolution is taking place in the era of capitalism decline, it is part of the overall struggle to eliminate capitalism and build socialism. The structure of the revolutionary state will be determined by its class basis. This revolutionary state will not be a purely bourgeois democratic state, but will become a dictatorship of workers, peasants and other exploited classes. It will be a revolutionary anti-imperialist government in the transitional period to non-capitalist (socialist) development. The Chinese Communist Party has decided to make every effort to realize the revolutionary future of transition to non-capitalist development. The Communist International brought the issue of the "non-capitalist future" of the Chinese revolution prominently before the Chinese Communist Party. From the end of 1926 to the beginning of 1927, the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee discussed the issue of the linkage between the two stages of the Chinese revolution and formed a party document "Explanation of the Central Political Bureau on the Seventh Expanded International Chinese Issue Resolution". The Central Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China accepted the instructions of the Executive Committee of the Communist International, reviewed the errors of the "Two Revolutions Theory", and interpreted the international instructions. The Central Political Bureau believes that the Party Central Committee’s past understanding of the Chinese revolution has a fundamental error, that is, it has drawn a huge "natural insurmountable" gap between the national revolution and the proletariat revolution. If the national revolution and the proletarian revolution are completely divided into two disconnected periods, and stick to the old framework to carry out the national revolution, and self-depict with this, it will "ruin the national revolution". According to the instructions of the International and China's internal and external conditions, "the development of the future of the Chinese National Revolution will exceed the bourgeois democratic revolution.



The successful national revolution led by the proletariat does not need to create a political environment conducive to the development of capitalism, but rather, transitions from capitalism to a non-capitalistic (socialist) political environment... to smoothly move towards socialism”. We should "view the national revolution and the proletarian revolution as the entirety of the Chinese revolution," "seize the connection between these two revolutions and make them inseparable," "and should not subjectively determine that our destiny must have a second revolution, and prepare to have a second revolution."
The explanation given by the Central Political Bureau officially rejects the previous erroneous belief of the "Twice Revolution theory" which separates the democratic revolution and socialist revolution, combines the issue of proletarian leadership with the two stages of revolution organically, treats the democratic revolution and socialist revolution as a whole, and considers how to cause non-capitalistic development. This is its correctness. However, the explanation of considering the democratic revolution and socialist revolution as "seamlessly one" and no need for "preparing for the second revolution" is wrong. It indicates that the Chinese Communist Party had not yet cleared the difference and connection between the two stages of the Chinese revolution, and had not found the correct path to a non-capitalistic turn.
The view of "single revolution" confuses the nature and stage boundary of the democratic revolution and socialist revolution, tries to complete the tasks of the two revolutions in one step, which reflects a "leftist" impatience. But at the same time, it also contains valuable ideas that were later confirmed by facts, that is: the proletariat will establish a democratic government of workers and peasants after the democratic revolution and take the supreme economic right from the hands of imperialism, warlords, bureaucrats, and compradors; the revolution in which the proletariat seize power has only one time, and the Chinese democratic revolution will not see the bourgeoisie control the power like the French Revolution. In short, the future of the Chinese revolution is socialism, not capitalism. These marks the theoretical progress of the members of the Chinese Communist Party. However, at the time, the mistakes in the "single revolution theory" became increasingly prominent and continued to develop, forming a "left-leaning" mistake of eliminating the bourgeoisie during the democratic revolution phase. After 1927, Qu Qiubai, Li Lisan, and Wang Ming all made mistakes in understanding the relationship between the democratic revolution and the socialist revolution, which led to the "leftist" thought to dominate the central leadership of the party three times and cause serious harm to the revolutionary cause.
During the Land Revolution War, in response to the erroneous "uninterrupted revolution" theory in the party that wants to "skip the stage of the bourgeois civil rights revolution", Mao Zedong pointed out in "The Struggle in Jinggang Mountains" that: "China is indeed currently in the stage of the bourgeois civil rights revolution. The program of China's thorough civil rightist revolution includes overthrowing imperialism externally and completely achieving national liberation; cleansing the influence of the comprador class in the cities internally, completing the land revolution, eliminating the feudal relationship in the rural areas, and overthrowing the warlord government. Only after such a civil rightist revolution can a genuine foundation be built for a transition to socialism."  Later, Mao Zedong discussed the economic policy of the Red Zone at the Second National Worker-Peasant-Soilder Representatives Conference in January 1934. He pointed out: "The principle of our economic policy is to carry out all possible and necessary economic constructions, concentrate on economic power to supply war and to rectify the living standards of the people, strengthen the unity of workers, peasants and economics, ensure the proletarian-led peasants, strive for national-run economy to lead private economy, and lay the groundwork for future development to socialism." However, these thoughts of Mao Zedong at that time were mostly aroused under the correct guidance of the Communist International, which are the initial results of the combination of Marxism-Leninism and the concrete reality of the Chinese Revolution. The thought of Mao Zedong about "two steps" Chinese revolution was still in its infancy and early formation stages.
However, in order to "push our work forwards", we need to "advance our great cause of combining the universal truth of Marxism-Leninism with the concrete practice of the Chinese revolution". After the Anti-Japanese War entered a stalemate stage, the tasks of the Chinese Communist Party's ideological struggle were significant.



The stubborn wing of the Kuomintang (KMT) advocates: if Three Principles of The People are to be accepted, communism must be set aside. While some representatives of the national bourgeoisie display dissatisfaction with the dictatorial rule of the KMT and their weak resistance in the war, they remain skeptical about the propositions of the Communist Party and the prospects of the Sino-Japanese War. They attempt to seek a political path beyond the political positions of both the KMT and Communist Party, hoping to establish a bourgeois republic in China similar to those in Europe and America. Even within the Communist Party and revolutionary ranks, some lack understanding of the theory and policy of the Chinese revolution. Thus, the task of explaining to the entire party and the people of the country the party's full understanding of the Chinese revolution gravely lies ahead of the Chinese Communists. Against such backdrop, Mao Zedong’s systematic study and exposition on the "two-step" problem of the Chinese revolution is carried out in depth. In Yan'an, Mao conducted extensive theoretical research on this issue, systematically summarized the pros and cons of the Chinese revolution, pooled the wisdom of the whole party and successively wrote the "No Idle Talk about The Communist" and "The Chinese Revolution and The Chinese Communist Party" and "On New Democracy" and other works. The introduction of these works marked the systematic formation of the strategy of the Chinese revolution progressing “in two steps”.


Colonial and semi-colonial countries must go through a difficult and complex path of proletarian revolution from democracy to socialism. The democratic revolution, in terms of its social nature, is a bourgeois revolution. Why is this the first step of the proletarian revolutionary movement in these countries? After the victory of the proletarian-led democratic revolution, it is not possible to enter socialism, then what is its immediate future? If the immediate future is not socialism, why is it said that the socialist revolution is the inevitable trend of the new democratic revolution? These are exactly some of the problems that the New Democratic theory seeks to answer and solve. The scientific elucidation of these issues constitutes the basic principles of New Democracy. 


The nature of the New Democratic revolution is a bourgeois democratic revolution, not a proletarian socialist revolution. In “The Chinese Revolution and The Chinese Communist Party,” Mao Zedong pointed out that what kind of revolution is the current stage of the Chinese revolution? Is it a bourgeois democratic revolution or a proletarian socialist revolution? Obviously, it is not the latter, but the former. Based on a complete understanding of the special nature of Chinese society, Mao pointed out that since Chinese society remains a colonial, semi-colonial and semi-feudal one, the primary enemies of the Chinese revolution are imperialism and feudal forces. Furthermore, the tasks of Chinese revolution are the national revolution and the democratic revolution aimed at overthrowing these two primary enemies. Sometimes the bourgeoisie also participates in this revolution against these two enemies. Even if the big bourgeoisie betrays the revolution and turns into an enemy of revolution, the brunt of the revolution is not directed towards general capitalism and its private property, but towards imperialism and feudalism. Hence, the nature of the Chinese revolution at its current phase is not proletarian socialism, but bourgeois democracy. But the bourgeois democratic revolution of China at present is no longer of the old-fashioned and general type - such revolution is already outdated but is a special type of bourgeois democratic revolution. This revolution is developing in China and all other colonial and semi-colonial countries. We call this revolution "the New Democratic revolution." This new democratic revolution is a part of the world proletarian socialist revolution, and it is resolutely against imperialism i.e., international capitalism. Politically, it combines several revolutionary classes against the dictatorship of imperialists and traitors. It opposes turning Chinese society into a bourgeois dictatorship. Economically, it puts the big capital and big business of imperialists and traitors under state operation, redistributes the land of the landowner class to farmers, preserves the general private capitalist enterprises, and does not abolish the rich farmer economy.



Therefore, this new form of democratic revolution, while on the one hand is paving the way for capitalism, it is, on the other hand, creating a prerequisite for socialism. The current stage of revolution in China is a transitional stage between ending the colonial, semi-colonial, semi-feudal society and establishing a socialist society; it is a process of New Democracy Revolution.

So when did this process begin? Mao Zedong stated that this process started after the First World War and the October Revolution in Russia, and in China, it started with the May Fourth Movement in 1919. The so-called New Democratic Revolution is a revolution against imperialism and feudalism led by the proletariat of the masses. It is essential for China's society to pass through this revolution to further develop into a socialist society; otherwise, it would not be possible. Mao Zedong elaborately pointed out that China's New Democratic Revolution greatly differs from the historic democratic revolution in European and American countries. It does not lead to bourgeois dictatorship but rather a dictatorship of a united front of several revolutionary classes under the leadership of the proletariat. During the Anti-Japanese War, the Anti-Japanese Democratic Government established by the Communist Party of China within the various anti-Japanese bases was a government of the Anti-Japanese National United Front. It neither represents the dictatorship of the bourgeoisie nor the dictatorship of the proletariat, but a dictatorship of a combination of revolutionary classes led by the proletariat. As long as people endorse opposing Japan and support democracy, regardless of their affiliation, they qualify to participate in this government. On the other hand, this New Democratic Revolution also differs from the Socialist Revolution. It only overthrows the rule of imperialists and treacherous reactionaries in China, without destroying any capitalist element that can still contribute to the anti-imperial and anti-feudal struggle.

Mao Zedong stressed that this New Democracy Revolution aligns fundamentally with the revolution of the Three People's Principles advocated by Sun Yat-sen in 1924. Sun Yat-sen stated in the "Manifesto of the First National Congress of the Kuomintang" published that year: "The so-called system of civil rights in modern countries is often monopolized by the bourgeoisie and has become a tool to oppress the common people. If the KMT's democracy, then it is common to all civilians, not a few who get it. He also said: "As for the businesses of both Chinese and foreigners that are monopolistic in nature, or too large to handle by private power, such as banks, railways, and airlines, must be operated and managed by the state, so that the private capitalist system cannot manipulate the people's livelihood, which is the essence of restraining capital." Sun Yat-sen also pointed out in his will the basic principles regarding domestic and foreign affairs that "we must arouse the masses and unite with nations in the world that treat me equally to struggle together." All these have transformed the old Three People's Principles that adapt to the old international and domestic environment into the New Three People's Principles that adapt to the new international and domestic environment. The Communist Party of China issued a proclamation on September 22, 1937, declaring that "The Three People's Principles are a necessity for China today, and our party is willing to struggle for its thorough realization," which refers to these Three People's Principles, not any other. This Three People's Principle is Sun Yat-sen's three major policies, namely, alliance with Russia, alliance with the Communist Party, and assistance to workers and peasants. Under the new international and domestic conditions, the Three People's Principles without the three major policies would not be a revolutionary Three People's Principles. Thus, China's bourgeois democratic revolution, whether in terms of its battlefront (United Front) or its state structure, cannot disregard the position of the proletariat, the peasant class, and other petty bourgeois. Whoever intends to discard the proletariat, the peasant class, and other petty bourgeois in China will, in no way, be able to solve the fate of the Chinese nation or any problem in China. The democratic republic that China's present stage of revolution aims to build must be a democratic republic that sees workers, peasants, and other petty bourgeois assuming a certain position and playing a certain role. In other words, it is a democratic republic of a revolutionary alliance of workers, peasants, petty bourgeois, and all other anti-imperialist and anti-feudal forces. The thorough establishment of this republic is only possible under the leadership of the proletariat.



Fully understanding the nature of the New Democracy Revolution, the party systematically summarized its basic characteristics, deepening the understanding of this revolution. The New Democratic Revolution is "a part of the proletarian socialist world revolution" and is "an ally on the front line of the world socialist revolution". The Communist Party of China pointed out in a deep analysis of the historical characteristics of the New Democratic Revolution that if one studies the historical development of China and the world, they would know that these historical characteristics of the New Democratic Revolution did not exist since the Opium War, but were formed later, after the First World War and the October Revolution in Russia. Mao Zedong once again emphasized clearly that the current nature of Chinese society, being of colonial, semi-colonial, and semi-feudal character, determines that the Chinese revolution must be divided into two steps: 

The first step is to change the colonial, semi-colonial, and semi-feudal society and turn it into an independent democratic society; the second step is to advance the revolution and establish a socialist society. The present revolution in China is taking the first step. This first step, the preparatory stage, has also been ongoing since the Opium War in 1840 when Chinese society began to change from a feudal society to a semi-colonial and semi-feudal society. Through the Taiping Heavenly Rebellion, the Sino-French War, the Sino-Japanese War, the Hundred Days' Reform, the Xinhai Revolution, the May Fourth Movement, the Northern Expedition, and the Land Revolution War, up until today's Anti-Japanese War, many individual stages lasting about one hundred years, they are all implementing this first step. The Chinese people are taking different steps at different times and to different degrees against imperialism and feudal forces, striving to establish an independent democratic society and complete the first revolution. The revolution that truly began in a more complete sense was the Xinhai Revolution. This revolution, in terms of its social nature, is a bourgeois democratic revolution, not a proletarian socialist revolution. This revolution is still not complete, and much effort is needed because the enemies of this revolution are still very powerful. Sun Yat-sen's statement, "the revolution has not yet succeeded, comrades still need to work hard," refers to this bourgeois democratic revolution. 

However, since the outbreak of the First World War in 1914 and the establishment of a socialist state on one-sixth of the world's land by the October Revolution in 1917, China's bourgeois democratic revolution has changed. Before this, China's bourgeois democratic revolution belonged to the category of the old world bourgeois democratic revolution, and was a part of it. After this, China's bourgeois democratic revolution has changed to be within the category of the new bourgeois democratic revolution, and on the front line of the revolution, it became part of the world proletarian socialist revolution. The direct cause of this change, as Mao Zedong pointed out, was the First World War and the victorious socialist October Revolution, which changed the direction of world history and divided the era of world history.



In the era when the global capitalist front has collapsed in one corner of the earth (this corner occupying one-sixth of the world's land), and in the other corners, its decadence has been fully revealed, any colony or semi-colony countries, if a revolution against imperialism, against the international bourgeoisie, and against international capitalism occur, will no longer belong to the category of the old-world bourgeois democratic revolution, but belong to the new category. It is no longer part of the old bourgeois and capitalist world revolution, but part of the new world revolution, namely, part of the proletarian socialist world revolution. 

The colony and the semi-colony of this kind of revolution can no longer be allied forces of the world capitalist anti-revolutionary front but has become allied forces of the world socialist revolutionary front. The first stage, the first step, of this kind of colony and semi-colony revolution, although basically bourgeois-democratic in nature according to its social nature and its objective requirement is to clear the way for the development of capitalism, it is no longer the old, bourgeois-led revolution aiming at establishing a capitalist society and a bourgeois dictatorship, but a new, proletarian-led revolution, aiming at setting up a new democratic society and establishing a dictatorship of revolutionary classes in the first stage.

Therefore, this kind of revolution exactly clears a broader way for the development of socialism. This kind of revolution, in its process, divides into several stages due to changes in the enemy situation and allies, yet its basic nature does not change. This kind of revolution strikes imperialism thoroughly and thus is not permitted by imperialism, but is opposed to imperialism. However, it is permitted by socialism and aided by socialist countries and the international proletariat of socialism. Therefore, this kind of revolution inevitably becomes part of the proletarian socialist world revolution.

Mao Zedong reflects on the proposal process of "the Chinese Revolution is part of the world revolution" in "On New Democracy". He pointed out that "the Chinese Revolution is part of the world revolution", this correct proposition, was proposed as early as 1924 to 1927 during the first great revolution in China. This was proposed by Chinese Communists, and was approved by all those who participated in the anti-imperialist and anti-feudal struggle at that time. However, the significance of this theory was not yet brought into play at that time, causing people to only vaguely understand this issue. Mao Zedong said that this kind of "world revolution" is no longer the old world revolution, the old bourgeois world revolution has ended; it is the new world revolution, it is the socialist world revolution. Similarly, this kind of "part" is no longer part of the old bourgeois revolution, but part of the new socialist revolution. This is a great change, this is an unparalleled great change since the world history and Chinese history.

Mao Zedong also particularly mentioned that the correct proposition of "the Chinese Revolution is part of the world revolution" proposed by the Chinese Communists "is based on Stalin's theory."



In 1918, to commemorate the first anniversary of the October Revolution, Stalin said in "The October Revolution and the National Question", “The great global significance of the October Revolution, lies mainly in: First, it broadened the scope of the national problem, transforming it from a local issue of struggle against national oppression in Europe, into a general issue of liberation from imperialism for all oppressed nations, colonies, and semi-colonial regions. Second, it opened up vast possibilities and practical paths for their liberation, significantly promoting the liberation cause of oppressed nations in the West and East, and drawing them into the immense tide of victorious anti-imperialist struggle. Third, it thereby built a bridge between socialist West and enslaved East, and established a new revolutionary front against world imperialism, extending from the western proletariat, through the Russian revolution, to the oppressed nations of the East." Following this article, Stalin frequently elaborated on the theory that the revolution of colonial and semi-colonial regions had broken away from its old confines, and had become part of the proletariat socialist revolution. The clearest explanation is found in Stalin’s article "On the National Question Again", published on June 30, 1925, arguing with the nationalists of Yugoslavia at the time. From this, it can be seen that there are two types of world revolution. The first is the world revolution belonging to the bourgeois and capitalist categories. This period of world revolution has long passed, ending with the outbreak of the first imperialist world war in 1914, and particularly with the Russian October Revolution in 1917. Since then, the second type of world revolution has begun, namely the proletariat socialist world revolution. This revolution is led by the proletariat of capitalist countries, with oppressed nations in colonial and semi-colonial regions as its allies. Regardless of the class, party, or individuals participating in the revolution from among the oppressed nations – and whether they consciously understand this or not – as long as they oppose imperialism, their revolution becomes part of the proletariat socialist world revolution, and they themselves become allies of this world revolution. Faced with the rapid development of the Chinese revolution, Mao Zedong said: "Today, as the economic and political crisis of capitalism increasingly leads the world into the second world war; as the Soviet Union has reached the transitional period from socialism to communism, and is able to lead and assist the world proletariat and oppressed nations to fight against imperialist war and strike against capitalist reaction; as the proletariat in various capitalist countries is preparing to overthrow capitalism and realize socialism; as the Chinese proletariat, peasant class, intellectuals and other petty bourgeoisie, under the leadership of the Chinese Communist Party, have already formed a great and independent political force. Should we expect the world significance of the Chinese Revolution to increase in such a period? I think we should. The Chinese Revolution is a great part of the world revolution. The first stage (which is divided into many small stages) of the Chinese Revolution, its social nature is a new type of bourgeois democratic revolution, not the proletariat socialist revolution, but it has long become a part of the proletariat socialist world revolution, and now it has become an even greater part of this world revolution, a great ally of this global revolution. The first step, the first stage of this revolution, will not and cannot establish a capitalist society dominated by the Chinese bourgeoisie, but will establish a new democratic society with the Chinese proletariat at the forefront and the combined dictatorship of various revolutionary classes in China, to complete its first stage. Then, it will develop into the second stage, to establish a socialist society in China. This is the most fundamental characteristic of the current Chinese revolution, this is the new revolutionary process of the past twenty years (starting from the May Fourth Movement in 1919), this is the vivid and specific content of the current Chinese revolution."



Since the May Fourth Movement in 1919, the leaders of the Chinese Revolution have been the proletariat.
Mao Zedong pointed out that before the May Fourth Movement in 1919, the political leaders of the Chinese bourgeois democratic revolution were the petty bourgeoisie and bourgeoisie of China (their intellectuals). After the May Fourth Movement, although the Chinese national bourgeoisie continued to participate in the revolution, the political leaders of the Chinese bourgeois democratic revolution no longer belonged to the Chinese bourgeoisie, but belonged to the Chinese proletariat. There are two aspects to the reasons: firstly, the preparatory stage of the Chinese democratic revolution has been underway since the Opium War. Secondly, the bourgeois-led Xinhai Revolution "marked the start of this revolution in a more complete sense". The Xinhai Revolution overthrew the monarchy, established the Republic, and made great contributions. However, it only ousted an emperor and hung a sign of "Republic", China remained under the oppression of imperialism and feudalism, and the revolutionary tasks of anti-imperialism and anti-feudalism had not been completed. The reason why China's bourgeoisie could not, like the bourgeoisie of Western Europe in history, especially the bourgeoisie of France, complete the mission given to them by history is mainly because "they were extremely weak economically and politically". This weakness was formed in the process of China becoming a semi-colonial and semi-feudal society. It is an "old problem brought from the mother's womb", a deficiency that is hard to overcome. Because of their weakness, they often compromise with the enemies of the revolution. The Chinese national bourgeoisie, "even in times of revolution, are unwilling to completely break away from imperialism, and they have close ties with rural rent exploitation. Therefore, they are unwilling and unable to completely overthrow imperialism, and are even less willing and less able to completely overthrow feudal forces." "Thus, the Chinese national bourgeoisie cannot solve the two basic issues and the two major fundamental tasks of the Chinese bourgeois democratic revolution." As for China's big bourgeoisie, represented by the Kuomintang, throughout the long period from 1927 to 1937, they colluded with imperialism and feudalism against the revolutionary people. During the Anti-Japanese War, some of them, represented by Wang Jingwei, openly surrendered to the Japanese invaders, "signifying a new betrayal by the big bourgeoisie". In summary, "on the one hand, the possibility of participating in the revolution, and on the other hand, the tendency to compromise with the enemies of the revolution, these are the dual aspects of the Chinese bourgeoisie". This dual nature is the fundamental reason why the Chinese bourgeoisie cannot lead the Chinese revolution to victory. However, on the other hand, the development of the revolutionary movement requires and always finds new leaders. Just as the Chinese bourgeois revolutionaries were defeated, the grown Chinese working class finally took the stage of Chinese political struggle after the May Fourth Movement. Although the Chinese working class is small in number and has its shortcomings, it is the most progressive, promising, and combative class in Chinese society. Relying on its organizational discipline, natural connection with the peasants, and especially the leadership of its vanguard—the Chinese Communist Party, the Chinese working class unhesitatingly undertook the heavy responsibility of leading the Chinese democratic revolution. Therefore, Mao Zedong said: "After the May Fourth Movement, although the Chinese national bourgeoisie continued to participate in the revolution, the political leaders of the Chinese bourgeois democratic revolution no longer belonged to the Chinese bourgeoisie, but belonged to the Chinese proletariat." It can be seen from this that the change of the leading class in the course of the Chinese democratic revolution is an inevitable development of history, and a choice made by history. In this way, the revolutions before and after the May Fourth Movement, although they were still bourgeois democratic revolutions, showed "important differences". After the May Fourth Movement, under the leadership of the Chinese proletariat and its party, and guided by Marxism-Leninism, the Chinese democratic revolution quickly displayed a new look. Not only in the breadth and depth of the revolution, but especially in the completeness and thoroughness of the revolution, it far surpassed that before the May Fourth Movement. Its political program, economic program, and cultural program all showed great differences from the former.



Not only does it accomplish the established tasks of the Chinese bourgeois democratic revolution, but it is also creating prerequisites and conditions for the next socialist revolution. In this sense, Mao Zedong referred to the democratic revolution before the May Fourth Movement as the "old general bourgeois democratic revolution," or the Old Democratic Revolution. The democratic revolution after the May Fourth Movement, he called the "new special bourgeois democratic revolution," or the New Democratic Revolution. Therefore, the change in dominant class is the most important change in the development of China's democratic revolution. Proletarian leadership becomes the main characteristic of the Chinese New Democratic Revolution. "The ultimate destiny of the Chinese revolution is not capitalism but socialism and communism. The question of the future of the Chinese revolution is also a question of the relationship between the Chinese bourgeois democratic revolution and the proletarian socialist revolution, and the relationship between the current stage and future stage of the revolution. At the Chinese Communist Party's National Representatives Congress held in Yan'an in May 1937, Mao Zedong said in response to a question about the future of the Chinese revolution that the bourgeois democratic revolution and the socialist revolution were like "two essays, the first and the second, Only when the first part is done properly can the second part be done well. Determined leadership of the democratic revolution is a prerequisite for the victory of socialism." "We advocate for the transformation of the democratic revolution in the direction of socialism," but this must be when conditions are ripe. Mao Zedong refuted Trotskyism's theory of "permanent revolution" and tailism, adventurism, and revolutionary impetuousness, which had once caused harm to the Chinese revolution, and required CCP members to both recognize the future of the revolution and struggle hard for the tasks at hand. He said: "Today's efforts are aimed at the future's great goal. Without this great goal, one is not a Communist. However, if today's efforts slacken, one is not a Communist, either." Later, Mao Zedong further expounded this concept comprehensively and systematically in "The Chinese Revolution and the Chinese Communist Party" and "On New Democracy," brilliantly summarizing the relationship between the democratic revolution and the socialist revolution, and providing a clear answer to the question of China's future.

Mao Zedong pointed out: Since the bourgeois democratic revolution in China at the present stage is not a general old-fashioned bourgeois democratic revolution, but a special new-style democratic revolution, a new democratic revolution, and China's revolution is taking place in the new international environment of the 1930s and 1940s, namely an international environment where socialism is surging and capitalism is declining, occurring during the Second World War and the era of revolution, then there is no doubt that the ultimate destination of China's revolution is not capitalism, but socialism and communism. Mao Zedong believed that since the Chinese revolution at the present stage is to change the current status of semi-colonial and semi-feudal societies, namely to struggle to complete a new democratic revolution, then after the victory of the revolution, due to the elimination of obstacles on the road to capitalist development, it is conceivable and not surprising that a capitalist economy would develop to a certain extent in Chinese society. The development of capitalism to a certain extent is the inevitable result of economically backward China after the victory of the democratic revolution. But this is only one aspect of the result of the Chinese revolution, not its whole. The complete result of the Chinese revolution is that on the one hand, there is the development of capitalist factors, and on the other hand, there is the development of socialist factors. What are these socialist factors? They are the growth of the weight of the proletariat and the Communist Party in national politics, the peasants, intellectuals, and petty bourgeoisie who either acknowledge or may acknowledge the leadership of the proletariat and the Communist Party. They are the state-owned economy of the Democratic Republic and the cooperative economy of the working people. All of this constitutes socialist factors. With favorable international conditions, the final outcome of China's bourgeois democratic revolution, avoiding the path of capitalism and realizing the path of socialism, would have great potential.



This shows that the relationship between the democratic revolution and the socialist revolution, is also the relationship between the present and the future. Their differences reflect the particularity of contradictions, while their connections reflect the unity of contradictions. The Chinese revolution is composed of such complex contradictory phases. Faced with this situation, the Chinese Communist Party can "properly lead the Chinese revolution only by clearly recognizing the differences and connections between the democratic revolution and the socialist revolution."
In short, in terms of the international front, the New Democratic Revolution is an ally of the socialist revolution of the world proletariat, not an ally of the world bourgeois revolution; in terms of revolutionary leadership, the New Democratic Revolution is led by the proletariat, not by the bourgeoisie; in terms of the future development of the revolution, the future of the New Democratic Revolution is socialism, not capitalism. These are the main characteristics of the Chinese New Democratic Revolution.

After the First Congress of the Party, both national crises and domestic political crises were deepening. The Party mobilized and led the workers’ movement to actively carry out anti-imperialist and anti-feudal struggles, leading to rapid development of the revolution. However, with divergent social views, and varying perspectives on "forceful unification," "Provincial autonomy," and "good person governance," it became urgent to clarify the basic issues such as the enemies, drivers, tasks and nature of the revolution. All of which are built on the correct understanding and analysis of the various classes in Chinese society.
The "Declaration of the Second National Congress of the Communist Party of China" by the Second Congress of the Party (hereinafter referred to as the "Declaration") preliminarily analyzed the bourgeoisie, peasants, petty bourgeoisie, and the proletariat.  
It pointed out that the bourgeoisie, in order to avoid economic oppression from imperialism and feudal military forces, will surely rise up against imperialism. Among the peasants, there are three parts: the affluent peasant landlords, small farmers who farm independently, and tenant farmers and farm workers. The first type is the minority. While the second and the third types constitute at least 95%. They are oppressed and exploited, so they must rise up in revolution—the “most important factor” of the revolution.
The Second Congress of the Party identified the feudal warlords and imperialism as enemies of the revolution, and drew the proletariat, peasants, petty bourgeoisie, and bourgeoisie to the side of the revolutionary forces. It clearly proposed to overthrow the oppression of imperialism and put down the political rule of the warlords, thereby formulating the Party's democratic revolutionary program. Therefore, for the first time, it clearly defined the objects, power, task, and nature of the revolution among various divergent views.
The Third Congress of the Party made important decisions about cooperation between the national and communist parties in the form of the "Resolution of the Third National Congress of the Communist Party of China" (hereinafter referred to as the "Resolution"). Based on the analysis of the economic and political conditions of society and the analysis of peasants and the working class, it focused on analyzing the bourgeoisie and the Kuomintang: First, it believed that there is a contradiction between the bourgeoisie and imperialism and warlords. In the “Resolution”, the bourgeoisie was divided into big businessmen (financial magnates) and the middle class, pointing out that big businessmen and bureaucrats are also looting by taking advantage of the fire. On the other hand, the middle class has been robbed by imperialism, occupying the market, taking away raw materials, and almost cutting off the "possibility of development" of large industries in China, and has caused its business to "develop anomalously"...



The rule over China is by "feudal warlords, not the bourgeoisie," and, "most of the middle class" suffer from political oppression. Therefore, "there must be inevitable conflicts with international imperialism and warlordism." Secondly, among the existing parties in China, only the Kuomintang can relatively be considered a party of national revolution. Given the current status of various social classes, it is difficult to establish a larger and more revolutionary party than the Kuomintang. Thirdly, however, the bourgeoisie tends to "live in peace with their situation" and "depends on the imperialist powers or warlords, easily compromising and betraying the common people." The Kuomintang also harbors illusions about imperialism and warlords, focusing all its efforts on military actions and disconnecting from the masses. The "Resolution" analyzes not only the revolutionary side of the bourgeoisie and the Kuomintang, but also the initial analysis of their compromise and non-revolution. Based on this, a decision is made to cooperate with the Kuomintang, thus defining the party's basic strategic policy for the Democratic Revolution. Although the "Resolution" was influenced by the Rightist thinking of the Communist International and Chen Duxiu, considering the Kuomintang as the "central force" and "leader" of revolution, there was a right-leaning misconception on the issue of revolutionary leaders, but the third congress of the Chinese Communist Party established the strategic policy of the united front for revolution, indicating that the party has made a new leap in understanding.

During this stage, Chen Duxiu wrote "On State-building" (September 1922), "Bourgeois Revolution and Revolutionary Bourgeoisie" (April 1923), "Chinese National Revolution and Various Social Classes" (December 1923), which are important components of the party's class analysis and understanding during this period. These three articles have three characteristics in their analysis of different social classes: Firstly, they point out that imperialism and feudal warlords are always the enemies of revolution. Secondly, the bourgeoisie is divided into three parts: the revolutionary bourgeoisie, the counter-revolutionary bourgeoisie, and the non-revolutionary bourgeoisie. It states that the emerging entrepreneurs support the revolution because the development of their businesses is hindered by imperialism and warlords; the bureaucratic bourgeoisie are against the revolution because they are dependent on imperialism and warlords; small business owners, due to their small scale, are destabilized by competition, have an unstable living situation, and tend to be neutral or lean towards revolution. This is the second characteristic. Analysis of farmers and the working class includes both advantages and disadvantages. It is pointed out that peasants account for the majority of the Chinese population, suffer from the plundering of imperialism and the exploitation of feudal gentry, and are potentially a great force for revolution. Without the participation of the peasants, the Democratic Revolution cannot be successful. However, peasants are dispersed, unorganized, culturally backward, and conservative. They are against landlords, "but cannot exceed the psychology of transferring private ownership from landlords to their own," which is a major reason why peasants find it difficult to join the revolution. The working class in the democratic revolution is an "important element," their "revolutionary tendency is greater than the bourgeoisie," and the few workers who truly have political consciousness are the bravest vanguards of the revolution. But a portion of the workers' thoughts are still immersed in clan society, with heavy regional ideas and superstitions. The number of politically conscious workers are "really too small." If the working class only conducts simple economic struggles, "there is no significant meaning," only the direct political struggle against imperialism and warlords has serious implications. This is the third characteristic. Chen Duxiu's analyses have played a certain positive role in the party's analysis of various social classes.

However, Chen Duxiu's class analysis contains some rightist errors.



This mainly shows the wavering, compromise, non-revolutionary and even counter-revolutionary side of the emerging bourgeoisie, with insufficient analysis and extremely insufficient affirmation of the advantages and role of the working class. Therefore, from a general estimate, it is mistakenly believed that the power of the bourgeoisie is greater than that of the proletariat, and the working class and peasants are not as revolutionary as the bourgeoisie. The leaders of the National Revolution are not the proletariat but the bourgeoisie, hence there is an erroneous conclusion of the "second revolution theory". This has led to a significant ideological root of the error of rightist opportunism committed by Chen Duxiu and others.

From the above, we can see that the party has begun to analyze all classes of society. On the basis of preliminary understanding of the economic status and political attitudes of each class, it has clearly defined the boundaries of the revolutionary object and the revolutionary force, and defined the party's democratic revolutionary program and strategic guidelines. However, it underestimated the working class and the peasants, and overestimated the bourgeoisie. Therefore, it still did not fully understand the problem of friends, and there was a right-wing view on the issue of revolutionary leaders.

Secondly, the preliminary development of the Party's class analysis

The establishment of cooperation between the KMT and the Communist Party has pushed the revolution into a new stage of development. In the united front, the class relationship between the proletariats and the bourgeoisie has come to the fore. The fundamental issue of this relationship lies in who is the leader of the revolution. On this issue, the Chinese Communist Party had not had a correct understanding in the past, and there are now two erroneous tendencies: the "left" tendency believes that the proletarian party should carry out a Soviet-style proletarian revolution and it is not necessary to lead the bourgeois democratic revolution. The "right" tendency believes that the bourgeois democratic revolution should be led by the bourgeoisie. In fact, both of them recognize the bourgeoisie as the leader of the National Revolution. To correct these two erroneous understandings, define the leading position of the proletariat in the democratic revolution, and the party has conducted a large amount of class analysis.

Deng Zhongxia wrote two articles in December 26, 1923 and November 1924 respectively, "China's Workers Condition and the Policy of Our Movement" and "The Power of China's Working Class", which focused on the analysis of the working class. The articles point out that the emergence and development of modern industry in China and the growth of the working class demonstrate the historical position of the working class and new methods of production. "China's proletariat has, due to the progress of industry in the past thirty to forty years, formed a strong and great team. It turned its head and 'betrayed' imperialism and counterattacked". The power of the proletariat, can now be "tested", and it will not be difficult to "predict" in the future, "it is ultimately the greatest force in the Chinese revolution." No one can deny its "leadership position". This is the first point. The advantages of the working class are pointed out, as well as its disadvantages, but the revolutionary nature of the working class is emphasized. Deng Zhongxia pointed out: Chinese workers are cheap labor for foreign capital, work for long hours, "cannot see the sun", low wages, average income "just a few cents", "work like a horse" for others. Therefore, the awakening of the working class is determined by its oppressed and plundered status, "and it certainly cannot be prevented from awakening because of its kinship and reasoning." This is the second point. The historical role of the working class is fully affirmed by summing up the lessons from the failure of the "2.7" big strike. Deng Zhongxia pointed out: "After the failure of the '2.7' strike, I have said this 'no matter in the democratic revolution or the social revolution, the working masses occupy the position of the main force', 'we should be very optimistic.'"



He criticized those who excessively doubt the power of the working class, pointing out: "You think this path is impassable due to minor setbacks, and seek other ways. I fear that you may not succeed even if you revolutionize for ten thousand years." This was his third point. 
Through an analysis of the proletariat, Deng Zhongxia clearly raised the issue of the proletarian's leadership position in the revolution, arguing: "The leader of China's future social revolution will undoubtedly be the proletariat, as is the leader of the present Nationalist Revolution. Only it is fit to be the leader of the Nationalist Revolution." In December 1924, Peng Shuzhi published an article titled "Who is the leader of the Chinese Nationalist Revolution?" The essay divides the bourgeoisie into three sections: banking bourgeoisie, commercial bourgeoisie, and industrial bourgeoisie. He pointed out that the banking bourgeoisie are "naturally reactionary." Among the commercial bourgeoisie, the comprador class is "a fascist against the nationalist revolution," and the native bourgeoisie, under various oppressions of imperialism and various devastations of the military, need revolution, but "absolutely cannot lead other classes." 
The industrial bourgeoisie clashes significantly with imperialist interests economically and is hindered in its development by the military, which "necessitates revolution”, but has a "weak economic base," and is "too weak." Therefore, "the reactionary element predominates among the Chinese bourgeoisie." "It would indeed be a difficult task to expect the bourgeoisie to participate in a nationalist revolution, let alone hope them to lead one. It's a pipe dream." Next, the working class and the peasants were analyzed. The article asserted that the working class, more directly oppressed and exploited by imperialism and the military than any other class, therefore, has a clearer and deeper understanding of imperialism and the military forces. This is the only realistic condition and the underlying reason why the working class “can take up the leadership of the Nationalist Revolution in China." "The Chinese working class is the natural leader of the national revolution." 
The peasants need a revolution, but they can only be led by other classes. The article believes that the proletariat, not the bourgeoisie, is the leader of the National Revolution, which is correct. However, it is a mistake to automatically assume that the working class naturally occupies a leading position in the revolution and that the bourgeoisie cannot naturally become revolutionary leaders, negating the struggle between the proletariat and the bourgeoisie for the leadership and easing vigilance against the bourgeoisie's attempt to take over the leadership of the revolution, reveling in blind optimism. Such “natural theory” in the issue of revolutionary leadership is erroneous. In December 1924, Chen Duxiu also published an article titled "The Lessons Learned from the National Movement in the Past 27 Years," pointing out: the proletariat is the most uncompromising revolutionary class; not only in the social revolution is it the main force, but also in the nationalist revolution, it also plays a role as a "supervisor of the war". 
The articles by Deng Zhongxia, Peng Shuzhi, Chen Duxiu, and others, indicate that more people in the Chinese Communist Party are carrying out class analysis. Moreover, their articles have one thing in common, that is, it is clearly posited that the leader of the democratic revolution is not the bourgeoisie, but the proletariat. This provides a broad ideological basis for the Fourth Congress of the Party to clearly put forward the "leadership position of the proletariat." In January 1925, the Fourth Congress of the Party made a "decision on the national revolutionary movement," and through an analysis of all classes in society, for the first time in the party's resolution, it clearly raised the key issue of "the leading position of the proletariat." Thus, it clarified the leading role in the revolution that was not clarified by the second and third congresses of the party, and corrected the wrong understanding of the third congress of the Communist Party on this issue.
During this stage of development, the party, through an analysis of all classes in society, clarified the issue of who is the leader of the revolution. This is another significant development based on the clear identification of the objects and dynamics of the revolution, indicating the initial formation of the party's basic ideas of the New Democratic Revolution. However, at this time, the party has not yet analyzed the peasant issue as the central issue of the revolution.



At the same time, there is no correct understanding of the bourgeoisie. In the initial stage, the entire bourgeoisie is considered revolutionary, but at this stage, the bourgeoisie is generally considered unable to revolutionize. For instance, Deng Zhongxia's article believes that "the bourgeoisie cannot revolutionize," and Peng Shuzhi's article finds it difficult for the bourgeoisie to participate in the revolution. The "Fourth Resolution" considers that the bourgeoisie still cannot join the revolution. This indicates that the Party does not yet have a correct understanding of the revolutionary friends.



After the Party's Fourth Congress, the revolution developed rapidly, and the peasant movement in Hunan and Guangdong rose quickly, which was inspiring. However, following the death of Sun Yat-sen, the Kuomintang was divided, and the right-wing began to plot to seize the revolutionary leadership. This urgently required the Party to clarify the situation of friends and adhere to the spirit of the proletariat's revolutionary leadership at the Fourth Congress. The Party's analysis of all social classes has entered a more complete and scientific stage. From February to June 925, Qu Qiubai published three articles, further clarifying the problems of the proletarian leadership position in the democratic revolution and implementing the spirit of the Fourth Congress. In May 925, Deng Zhongxia made a speech and "answers" at the Chinese National General Workers' Welcome Nationalist Party's Second National Representative Conference. Deng's articles and speeches raised the issue of "worker-peasant alliance". He pointed out that the peasants were the workers' "natural allies", and without the unity with the peasants, it would be impossible to achieve the leading role in the national revolution. In December 925, Li Dazhao released an article analyzing the reasons for the oppression and exploitation of the peasants, pointing out that the peasants and workers must unite to overthrow the rule of imperialism and the warlord government.

The articles of Qu Qiubai, Deng Zhongxia, Li Dazhao et al., while emphasizing the proletarian leadership position's concept, initially acknowledged the basic problem of "peasants are the central issue in realizing the proletarian revolutionary leadership". This is a new beginning for the Party's understanding of revolutionary friends. However, in March 1926, Mao Zedong's analysis of all social classes in China developed this understanding to a new level. The main features are: firstly, the bourgeoisie is clearly divided into the comprador class and the middle class, clarifying the past ambiguous concepts and views. The article lists the comprador class, warlords, bureaucrats, and landlord class as the representatives of the most reactionary and backward production relations, and the comprador class is an undeniable reactionary. For the first time, the article clarified that the middle class is the national bourgeoisie. 

Secondly, it conducted an extremely detailed analysis of the petty bourgeoisie. The article pointed out that the petty bourgeoisie includes owner cultivators, handicraft masters, the small intellectual class, and small businessmen. This small private owner class, which is large in number and revolutionary, is the closest friend of the proletariat, and it is necessary to unite with them and lead them to revolution.

Thirdly, it made a scientific analysis of the peasants.



The article classifies semi-self-sufficient farmers, poor farmers, small artisans, shop assistants, and peddlers as the semi-proletariat. It conducts a profound analysis of the economic status and political attitudes of semi-subsistence and poor farmers, pointing out that "the so-called peasant problem is mainly their problem." This is because poor farmers and semi-self-sufficient farmers are the largest group in rural areas. Considering the issue of peasants, their problems must be considered first, they are the main targets of the feudal rent and usury exploitation of the landlord class. Hence, they are the main force in rural areas opposing feudal forces. Their revolutionary nature is superior to that of self-sufficient farmers. Especially the poor farmers, who are extremely receptive to revolutionary propaganda. They constitute the most basic force to realize the leadership of the proletariat revolution. Mao Zedong's analysis of semi-self-sufficient and poor farmers, pointing out that they are the closest friends, actually indicated the center of the party's consideration of the peasant issue, mainly the issue of poor and semi-self farmers. Mao Zedong's high degree of observation and scientific analysis methods for the peasant issue are a remarkable embodiment of his combination of Marxism-Leninism and the actual situation of China's revolution.

Once the issues concerning the bourgeoisie, the petty bourgeoisie, and the peasants have been clarified, the revolutionary friend problem can be readily understood. This is a new contribution after the party's Second and Fourth National Congresses clearly identified revolutionary enemies and leaders.

During the Land Revolution War, faced with a more complex class struggle situation and context, the Chinese Communists represented by Mao Zedong made further divisions on the class relationships in Chinese society. In October 1933, in the document "How to Analyze Rural Classes," Mao Zedong set scientific division criteria for five classes: landlords, rich peasants, middle peasants, poor peasants, and workers (including farm workers). After arriving in northern Shaanxi, the Chinese Communist Party summarized historical lessons and conducted a more systematic analysis of the class relationships in Chinese society. In the article "The Chinese Revolution and the Chinese Communist Party," Mao Zedong conducted a comprehensive analysis of various types of petty bourgeoisie, the peasant class, the proletariat, and the lumpen proletariat beyond the landlord class and the bourgeoisie. These scientific analyses provide a scientific basis for formulating the party's line, policy, and tactics, and elevate the party's analysis of Chinese social classes to a new, scientific level.



The general line is a concentrated summary of the party's strategic goals, main tasks and the ways and means to achieve these goals and tasks during a certain historical stage, that is, the basic line. It embodies the party's stance and is the basic principle of the party's actions. It overlooks the whole situation and determines the direction, goals and course of all the party's work. Therefore, the general line is the lifeblood of the party and plays a major role in unifying the thoughts and actions of the whole party and uniting all ethnic groups across the country. Formulating the party's general line according to the features of the era and the tasks of the party in each stage is an important method of leading the revolution by the Chinese Communists represented by Mao Zedong.



The general line and overall policy of the Communist Party of China in the democratic revolution stage is: "A revolution led by the proletariat, for the masses, against imperialism, feudalism, and bureaucrat capitalism." This general line was formed after long-term theoretical exploration and continuous practice of revolutionary struggles, and it essentially took shape during the War of Resistance Against Japan. It was finally fully formed after further supplementation and development during the period of the Liberation War. It could be said that the process of the formation of the party's general line of democratic revolution was an understanding of the three elements of the general line of democratic revolution - revolutionary leadership, revolutionary dynamics, and revolutionary targets. It was also a process where the Communist Party of China went from knowing very little to knowing more about China's national conditions and Marxist-Leninist theories, until they had a complete and unified understanding in theory and practice. This process also reflected the difficult development of the democratic revolution in China until it achieved national victory.

At the founding of the Party and the National Revolution period, the members of the Communist Party of China had already made preliminary exploration of the basic issues of China's modern national democratic revolution, forming the basic ideas of a new democratic revolution. During the Land Revolution War, the Party continued to explore the fundamental questions of what kind of revolution the Chinese Revolution is and how to carry out this revolution, achieving significant progress, and enriched the theory of the New Democratic Revolution with the revolutionary path theory of "surrounding cities from the rural areas, and seizing power by armed force." During the War of Resistance Against Japan, the Party summarized and expanded upon the theory of New Democratic Revolution in a comprehensive and multi-faceted several ways, on the basis of systematically summarizing the experiences and lessons since its founding. In many of his works during this period, Mao Zedong analyzed deeply basic issues like the domestic and international environment of the Chinese revolution, the nature of Chinese society, and more. He also comprehensively detailed on the basis of this the distinctive historical characteristics of the New Democratic Revolution and the developmental laws of Chinese revolution, proposing the theory, program, line, and set of principles and policies of the New Democratic Revolution. He answered creatively and completely major questions like what kind of revolution the Chinese revolution is and how to carry out the revolution.

In "The Chinese Revolution and the Chinese Communist Party", Mao Zedong provided a comprehensive and deep discussion of the objectives, tasks, nature, and prospects of the New Democratic Revolution, from both theoretical and practical perspectives, and definitively stated: "The so-called New Democratic Revolution is the anti-imperialist and anti-feudal mass revolution under proletarian leadership." This is the first expression of the overall line of the New Democratic Revolution. After the victory of the War of Resistance Against Japan, the domestic class contradictions rose to become the main contradiction, and correctly understanding the nature of Chiang Kai-shek's government and its economic foundation became an urgent question for the Party to resolve. After deep analysis of its political nature and economic foundation, Mao Zedong referred to the colossal capital burgeoning under the state power of Chiang Kai-shek and the "Four Big Families" as "bureaucrat capital," and the class in control of bureaucrat capital as "bureaucrat bourgeoisie." As bureaucrat capitalism is characterized by sophistication, feudal nature, and monopoly, hence, "The task of the New Democratic Revolution is not only to abolish the special privileges of imperialism in China, but also to eradicate the exploitation and oppression of the landlord class and bureaucrat bourgeoisie (big bourgeoisie) domestically." In April 1948, in his "Speech at the Cadre Meeting in Jin-Sui", Mao Zedong clearly included bureaucrat capitalism, along with imperialism and feudalism, as targets of the Chinese revolution, stating: "The New Democratic Revolution is not any other revolution, it can only and must be a revolution led by the proletariat, for the masses, against imperialism, feudalism, and bureaucrat capitalism." This is the current historical stage's general line and overall policy of the Communist Party of China. This general line properly resolved a series of basic questions about the new democratic revolution, such as the right to leadership, the dynamics of the revolution, the targets of the revolution, the tasks of the revolution, the nature of the revolution, and the future of the revolution. It enriched and developed the revolutionary theory of Marxism-Leninism.



Why does the Communist Party of China lead the people in a democratic revolution against imperialism and feudalism? What is the fundamental purpose of the New Democratic Revolution led by the Party? This is another important question that must be correctly answered while resolving what kind of revolution the Chinese revolution is, and how the revolution takes place. As the vanguard of the Chinese working class, the birth of the Communist Party of China is the requirement of the development of China's advanced productive forces, and it took to the historical stage in the capacity of representing China's advanced productive forces. The New Democratic Revolution led by the Communist Party of China aims to change the feudal production relationships of compradors, as well as the corrupt superstructure in politics, fundamentally liberating the restrained productive forces. To this end, Mao Zedong has made many insightful discussions.

In March 1944, when Mao Zedong spoke at a propaganda work meeting held by the Propaganda Committee of the CPC Central Committee, he emphasized to cadres that they must have a correct understanding of the purpose of the revolution. He pointed out that many comrades put politics and military first, which is correct, because without defeating the enemy, there is no room for negotiation. However, we must not forget that the purpose of political and military affairs is to liberate and develop productive forces. Mao Zedong said: The power of politics and military is to overthrow the forces that hinder the development of productive forces; the purpose of overthrowing the forces that hinder the development of productive forces is to liberate productive forces and develop the economy. The economy is the basis of politics and military, and politics and military are the superstructure. The foundation is the economy, and the fundamental purpose is also to develop the economy. Politics and military are put first because without them, productive forces cannot be liberated, and there is no possibility to discuss other issues. Here, Mao Zedong deeply analyzed the relationship between politics, military, and economy, and clarified the fundamental purpose of the New Democratic Revolution led by the Communist Party of China.

In April 1945, in the political report of the Seventh National Congress of the Communist Party of China, Mao Zedong clearly proposed that the fundamental criterion for judging the quality of a political party is the criterion of productive forces. He pointed out: "The good or bad of the policy and practice of all political parties in China, and their role among the Chinese people, ultimately depends on whether they are helpful to the development of the people's productive forces and the size of their help. It depends on whether they are restraining productive forces or liberating productive forces. To eliminate Japanese invaders, implement land reforms, liberate farmers, develop modern industry, and establish an independent, free, democratic, united, and strong New China, only all of these can liberate China's social productive forces and be welcomed by the Chinese people."

In December 1947, Mao Zedong made it clearer in "The Current Situation and Our Tasks" that the purpose of the revolution is to liberate productive forces. He said that the most fundamental task of the New Democratic Revolution is to "change the feudal production relationships of compradors and liberate the restrained productive forces".

In summary, during the New Democratic Revolution, the understanding and handling of the relationship between politics, military, and economy, the purpose of the revolution, and the standard for judging the quality of political parties by the Communist Party of China was correct. In semi-colonial and semi-feudal China, only by first carrying out the New Democratic Revolution, overthrowing the rule of imperialism and feudalism, can the restrained productive forces be fundamentally liberated and production be developed. Throughout the New Democratic Revolution, the Communist Party of China embodied and practiced the requirements of the development of advanced productive forces with such a concept.



The victory of the revolution depends on the correctness of the revolutionary line and strategy. The basis of the general line lies in a clear understanding of the national conditions, and the basis of the strategy lies in distinguishing friends from enemies. To distinguish friends from enemies is the primary issue of the Chinese revolution. Who is the object of the Chinese revolution? This is determined by the nature, characteristics, and main contradictions of modern Chinese society.



Since modern China was a semi-colonial and semi-feudal society, the main contradictions in this society were those between imperialism and the Chinese nation and between feudalism and the masses. Therefore, the targets of the Chinese revolution were "imperialism and feudalism," along with bureaucratic capitalism. 

Mao Zedong pointed out: who are our enemies? Who are our friends? If one cannot distinguish between enemies and friends, they cannot be a revolutionary. However, distinguishing between enemies and friends is not straightforward. The limited success of the Chinese revolution after thirty years was not due to a wrong purpose, but a faulty strategy. This wrong strategy was the inability to unite real friends for the assault on real enemies. This was because the revolutionaries had not identified who their enemies and friends were. After the Opium War, the Chinese people's struggle against imperialism and feudalism never ceased. The fundamental reasons for repeated failures within these struggles were the lack of scientific theory, the failure to mobilize masses, particularly the workers and peasants, and the failure to identify the objects of revolution, the friends of the revolution, and to formulate correct strategies.

Even though the Taiping Heavenly Kingdom had a dual nature of being anti-feudal and anti-invasion, it could not theoretically justify this, so it ultimately fell deeply into the mire of feudalism. The slogan and actions of the Boxers "Support the Qing, Destroy the foreigners" show that the peasants didn't understand the relationship between the local feudalists and foreign invaders. The fact that the bourgeois reformers attempted to promote reform by relying on the feudal emperor, with the assistance and support of British and American imperialism, demonstrates the reformers' lack of understanding of the nature of feudalism and the Western powers. The 1911 Revolution overthrew the Qing government, but the fruits of the revolution ultimately fell into the hands of Yuan Shikai. The bourgeois revolutionaries lacked both a clear stance against imperialism and a thorough stance against feudalism, often deliberately aligning with warlords to oppose other warlords; they could not articulate the real targets of struggle for the Chinese people.

After the establishment of the Communist Party of China, the second congress of the Communist Party based on its understanding of the current situation in China, for the first time clearly stated the minimum program of the party is against imperialism, against feudal warlord rule, and to carry out a democratic revolution. This defined the goals of revolution that had not been clarified since the modern era, leading the way for the Chinese revolution. This clear stance against imperialism and feudalism marked the first valuable step that the Communist Party of China took in the course of integrating Marxism into Chinese contexts.

Firstly, imperialism was the primary target of modern China's national democratic revolution. Why was imperialism the main target of the Chinese revolution?

Firstly, imperialism directly hindered China's economic development and political progress. Modern China was bullied by all the imperialist nations of different sizes in the world. Several powerful countries carved spheres of influence in China, and some even attempted to monopolize China. China was subject to insult, harm, and dismemberment. The objective of the imperial powers invading China was not to change feudal China into capitalist China, but to turn China into their colony or semi-colony.



Although imperialism did not annihilate China, and China remained semi-independent, imperialism was essentially the ruler of China. Secondly, imperialism colluded with Chinese feudalism to oppress the Chinese people. When imperialism comes to a backward country, it always preserves the backward forces of this country, unwilling to casually discard it, change it, in order to facilitate its aggression and oppression. The seventy years before modern China was ruled by the Qing Dynasty, imperialism turned the Qing Dynasty into a tamed tool utilised by it. After the demise of the Qing Dynasty, it supported one military bureaucrat after another representing the interest of the landlord class and comprador bureaucratic capital. The feudal forces and their superstructure could continue to exist due to the maintenance of imperialism.

Lastly, the Chinese people's opposition to imperialism is also to rid the power behind Chinese feudalism, to complete the democratic revolution. In modern China, there is a relationship of interdependence and tight connection between imperialism and feudalism. Imperialism uses the Chinese feudal forces as the foundation for its bullying and oppression of China, and the Chinese feudal forces use imperialism as their backing. Thus, on the political stage of China, those who often perform in the foreground are the reactionary warlords and politicians, and those who manipulate behind the scenes are the imperialist powers. Under such circumstances, only by undergoing an anti-imperialist national revolution can the Chinese people finally rid themselves of the shackles of the feudal system, and the democratic revolution can be thorough.

Opposing imperialism and striving for the independence of the Chinese nation is the fundamental premise to solve the "salvation" and "development" issues of modern China, as well as the primary task. It will not be an easy task to defeat the already ruling imperialist forces in China on a very backward social foundation. But history has proven that only through such means can China's miserable fate be changed. That is to say, only by first striving for the liberation of the nation and the independence of the country, can we talk about the construction of modern political, economic, and cultural systems.

Opposing imperialism is also a long-term task throughout the whole process of the New Democratic Revolution. However, due to different situations and main objects of struggle at different stages, the main opposition to which imperialism differs as well. Also, because of the different forms of imperialist aggression and oppression of China at various stages, the form of the Chinese people's opposition to imperialism is also different. When imperialism launches an invasion of China, the Chinese people would oppose imperialism in the form of a national war, such as the Anti-Japanese War. When imperialism invades China by non-armed methods such as politics, economics, and culture, domestic feudal warlords and reactionary politicians often form an alliance with imperialism to oppress the people together. In such a situation, the Chinese revolution generally adopts the form of a civil war to oppose the alliance of imperialism and the feudal class, and indirectly opposes imperialism while struggling against feudal forces, such as the National Revolution, the Land Revolution, and the National Liberation War, etc.

Secondly, feudalism is another main target of the modern Chinese democratic revolution. The reason why feudalism is another main target of the Chinese revolution is that the feudal exploitation system is the main pillar of imperialist rule in China and the social basis for the autocratic rule by feudal warlords. Feudal rule is the main obstacle to the economic modernization and political democratization of modern China and a roadblock on the way forward for the Chinese nation.



In modern China, the landlord class controlled the grassroots government in the vast rural areas, acting as officials at all levels of government. Many officials, after exploiting the people, went to the countryside to buy land and became emerging landlords. Imperialism stabilized its footing in China by supporting and nurturing feudal reactionary regimes, gaining maximum benefits. The feudal reactionary regime, in turn, depended on the landlord class for nationwide rule. This was true for both the Beiyang warlords and the newly emerging KMT warlords.

In China's modern economic life, feudal economy dominated. The feudal exploitation system was premised on landlords owning land and exploiting peasants' surplus and even necessary labor. In old China, landlords and wealthy farmers, who made up less than 10% of the rural population, owned 70% to 80% of the land. In contrast, the poor peasants, farm laborers, middle peasants, and other laborers, who made up over 90% of the rural population, only owned 20% to 30% of the total land. The feudal landlord class exploited by renting land to peasants and charging high rents. This rent exploitation not only occupied all the peasants' surplus labor but also a large part of their necessary labor. In addition to the cruel exploitation of rents, peasants were also oppressed by commercial capital, usury, and excessive taxes levied by reactionary governments at all levels. These conditions led to a very low level of productive forces in China and extremely poor living conditions for the people. Therefore, to achieve economic modernization and political democratization in China, feudalism must be opposed. To oppose feudalism fundamentally means to eliminate the feudal exploitation system with the primary characteristic of landlord land ownership economically and to overthrow the autocratic rule of feudal warlords —— the concentrated representatives of imperialism's proxies and landlord comprador forces, politically. 

Like opposing imperialism, opposing feudalism also runs through the entire course of the New Democratic Revolution, although it has different specific content and forms in different periods. During the Great Revolution, people opposed the rule of the Beiyang warlords, and the party mobilized peasants to fight against landlords and divide the land. After the failure of the Great Revolution, the party raised the banner of land revolution, launched a vigorous land revolution war, and addressed the core and substantive issues of feudalism —— abolishing the land ownership system of the feudal landlord class. During the Anti-Japanese War, the party timely changed the policy of confiscating the land of the landlord class to a policy of reducing rent and interest, in accordance with the changes in the primary contradictions within the country and the needs of the united front. After the Liberation War, the party implemented a land system that abolished feudal and semi-feudal exploitation and allowed those who work the land to own it, and it ultimately overthrew the feudal superstructure in China, achieving a decisive victory against feudalism.

In short, the modern Chinese revolution has dual characteristics of anti-imperialism and anti-feudalism. The two aspects are interlinked. If the rule of imperialism is not overthrown, the rule of the feudal landlord class cannot be eliminated; conversely, if the rule of the feudal landlord class is not eliminated, the foundation of imperialistic rule in China is not uprooted, the broad masses of peasants cannot be mobilized to form a powerful force for the Chinese revolution to overthrow imperialistic rule. Therefore, "the two basic tasks of national revolution and democratic revolution are distinct yet unified."



Thirdly, bureaucratic capitalism is also the target of China's New Democratic Revolution. Since modern times, the development of capitalism in China has presented two parts with both strict distinctions and certain connections: one is bureaucratic capitalism; the other is national capitalism. Correspondingly, the bourgeoisie in modern China is also divided into two parts: one is the bureaucratic bourgeoisie (also known as the big bourgeoisie, comprador class); the other is the national bourgeoisie (also known as the middle bourgeoisie, middle class). Bureaucratic capitalism and the bureaucratic bourgeoisie are the targets of the New Democratic Revolution, national capitalism has always been protected in the process of the New Democratic Revolution, and the national bourgeoisie is one of the driving forces of the New Democratic Revolution. Therefore, the Chinese New Democratic Revolution does not generally oppose capitalism and the bourgeoisie. Conversely, it allows and encourages the development of national capitalism, and the capitalism it opposes is only bureaucratic capitalism. The presence of two parts in modern Chinese capitalism and bourgeoisie is entirely a result of imperialist aggression against China, a phenomenon unique to a semi-colonial semi-feudal society.
Opposing bureaucratic capitalism is not because it is capitalism, but because bureaucratic capitalism is an amalgamation of imperialism with the Chinese feudal landlord class and the old rich peasantry, relying on state power to develop into a comprador, feudal state monopoly capitalism. This kind of state monopoly capitalism is not developed on the basis of free capitalism, but is created by the political representatives of large landlords and compradors through super-economic plundering, characterized by comprador, feudal, and state monopolistic traits. It is the economic foundation of the reactionary regime of Chiang Kai-shek, an important factor impeding the development of productive forces in modern China. Therefore, confiscating bureaucratic capital and eliminating the bureaucratic bourgeoisie has become one of the basic content of the New Democratic Revolution.

The core issue of the New Democratic Revolution is the issue of proletarian leadership. Whether the leadership of the revolution is in the hands of the bourgeoisie or in the hands of the proletariat is the fundamental sign distinguishing the new and old democratic revolutions, and the touchstone to measure the correctness of the Party's line. Right-leaning is to give up leadership, "left-leaning" is empty-headed leadership. Whether it is "left-leaning" or right-leaning, there are mistakes in leadership. Therefore, this issue is very important, it relates to the future of the revolution, and determines the success or failure of the revolution.
Generally speaking, the bourgeois democratic revolution should be led by the bourgeoisie. However, the Chinese revolution has taken place in a special era and under special societal national conditions, so who should lead the revolution has become a new problem. 
As the historical facts show, the leadership of the Chinese revolution has undergone a transformation process. Since the emergence and development of Chinese national capitalism in the 1870s, representatives of the bourgeoisie have indeed initiated waves of revolution and led significant struggles such as the Xinhai Revolution.



At that time, the proletariat was small in number and politically immature, and had not yet formed an independent class force, participating in revolution only as followers of the bourgeoisie. This situation changed with the May Fourth Movement. In this movement, the working class demonstrated enormous political enthusiasm and maturity, played a very important role, and began to appear on China's political stage as an independent class force. After the birth of the Communist Party of China, the leadership of the Chinese revolution gradually transferred from the bourgeoisie to the proletariat.

From the perspective of ideological understanding, the issue of leadership in the Chinese revolution also underwent a process of development. In articles published between 1923 and 1924, both Qu Qiubai and Deng Zhongxia emphasized that the proletariat must occupy a prominent position in the National Revolution and increasingly assume leadership of the revolution. The Fourth National Congress of the CPC also raised the issue of the proletariat's leadership in the democratic revolution. However, the praxis of the next few years showed that the CPC's understanding of the leadership of the revolution had not really been resolved. In 1925, Mao Zedong, in his analysis of the social classes in China, proposed that the proletariat was the leading class of the revolution; by the Autumn Harvest Uprising in 1927, Mao Zedong's thought on the leadership of the proletariat in the Chinese revolution was further solidified; and by the late 1930s, in the New Democratic Revolution theory, Mao Zedong's theoretical elaboration on the proletariat's leadership in revolution became a significant part.

The Chinese bourgeoisie could not lead the bourgeois democratic revolution in China because the changes in the era and China's nationality had determined that the Chinese bourgeoisie lacks the capability to lead a bourgeois democratic revolution. The Chinese bourgeoisie is not like the Western bourgeoisie and does not have a thorough anti-feudalist character - it has a dual nature. This characteristic determines that the bourgeoisie's attitude toward the revolution is not stable or resolute. Even in times of revolution, they are not willing to fully sever their ties with imperialism and they have close connections with the land rent exploitation in rural areas. As a result, they are neither willing nor capable of overthrowing imperialism or feudal forces. Hence, the two fundamental issues and two major tasks of the Chinese bourgeois democratic revolution could not be solved by the Chinese national bourgeoisie. This claim is proven by the failure of the Hundred Days' Reform and the Xinhai Revolution. The Chinese revolution objectively required a new leading class and a new path.

The Chinese proletariat, due to its inherent characteristics, was able to shoulder the responsibility of leading the revolution in China. Although the Chinese proletariat was less numerous compared to peasants, younger than the proletariat in capitalist countries, and had a lower cultural standard than the bourgeoisie - with prevalent small producer consciousness - it represented the advanced productive forces of modern China. It was the most progressive, promising and combative class, with an organized, disciplined nature linked to advanced economic forms.
 
In addition to having the general virtues of the world proletariat, the Chinese proletariat also had many special attributes. Firstly, the Chinese proletariat was deeply oppressed by imperialism, feudalism, and capitalism in ways that few other nations have experienced. This severe and brutal oppression meant that not only is the entire class highly revolutionary, but it also took a more resolute and thorough approach in revolutionary struggle than any other class. Secondly, although the numbers of the Chinese working class were small, they were highly concentrated in big cities and large enterprises, making them easy to organize into a powerful force conducive to the widespread dissemination of Marxism.



Thirdly, the majority of Chinese industrial workers come from bankrupt farmers and have a natural connection with the vast number of farmers, making it easy to form a solid alliance with the peasant class. These unique advantages of the Chinese proletariat have determined that only it can become the leading class of the revolution. Without the leadership of the proletariat and the Chinese Communist Party, the Chinese revolution cannot succeed, as proven by the entire history of the Chinese revolution.
Recognizing that the proletariat should lead and can lead the Chinese revolution does not mean that the question of leadership has been resolved. Leadership will not naturally fall into the hands of the proletariat, and it must be fought for. To this end, the Chinese communists, represented by Mao Zedong, have gradually developed a set of policies and strategies for striving for and seizing leadership of the revolution through long-term revolutionary practice. Mainly include: First, establishing a broad revolutionary united front based on the worker-peasant alliance is the key to realizing proletariat's leadership. Mao Zedong once pointed out: "The Chinese proletariat should understand that although they themselves are a class with the highest level of consciousness and organization, but if they rely solely on their own class strength, they cannot win. To win, they must unite all possible revolutionary classes and classes under various conditions and organize a revolutionary united front." Without the revolutionary united front, there is essentially no leadership of the proletariat. This united front must be based on the worker-peasant alliance, because the "proletariat is the most thorough revolutionary democrat" , "The peasants are the largest revolutionary democrats", the peasants who make up about 80% of the total population, are the basic force determining the success or failure of the Chinese revolution. Therefore, the key to realizing the proletariat's revolutionary leadership is to unite the peasants and form a solid worker-peasant alliance.
Secondly, when establishing a united front with the bourgeoisie, the implementation of the principle of independence and both unity and struggle is the basic strategy to maintain the leadership of the proletariat. Although the bourgeoisie, due to its economic and political weakness, cannot lead the Chinese revolution to victory, it does not mean that it will automatically give up leadership. They not only strive to influence the petty bourgeoisie and peasants, but also strive to influence the proletariat and the Communist Party, striving to eliminate the independence of the proletariat and the Communist Party in thought, politics, and organization, and strive to turn the proletariat and the Communist Party into the tail of the bourgeoisie and its party, striving to make the fruits of the revolution to a group and a party of the bourgeoisie. Therefore, the proletariat and its party must maintain a clear mind, adhere to the principle of independence, and implement a flexible strategy of both unity and struggle when establishing a united front with the bourgeoisie. Only in this way can both maintain the united front with the bourgeoisie without losing the leadership of the proletariat.
Again, establishing a powerful revolutionary armed force is a solid pillar to ensure the leadership of the proletariat. In the semi-colonial and semi-feudal China, where there is no national independence externally and no democracy and freedom internally, the main form of revolutionary struggle is war, and the main form of organization is the army. "Political power comes from the barrel of a gun", without a strong revolutionary armed force, there is no place for the proletariat and the Communist Party in China, let alone the so-called leadership of the proletariat. Therefore, if the proletariat wants to maintain their leadership in a democratic revolution, they must establish a strong revolutionary armed force.
Finally, strengthening the construction of the proletariat party is the fundamental guarantee for realizing the leadership of the proletariat.



The leadership of the proletariat in the Chinese revolution is realized through their own party - the Communist Party. The leadership of the proletariat is essentially the leadership of the Communist Party. The Communist Party is the initiator and organizer of the proletarian revolutionary cause. Only under the leadership of the Communist Party can the proletariat fulfill its historical mission and realize the cause of human liberation. As the political representative of the proletariat, the Communist Party mainly relies on its correctly formulated programs, routes, and policies, by the role model of the members of the Communist Party, by the proper relationship established with its allies, and by the conditions of development, ideological unity, strict discipline of the Communist Party, etc., to realize and guarantee its political leadership. For this, the Communist Party must strengthen itself comprehensively in thought, politics, and organization.
Four, the driving force for the new democratic revolution. The driving force for the new democratic revolution, as mentioned in the general line of the new democratic revolution, is the "masses", mainly including the proletariat, the peasant class, the petty bourgeoisie, and the national bourgeoisie.
First, the proletariat is not only the most basic driving force for the Chinese revolution, but also the leading force of the Chinese revolution. We have made a detailed analysis of this issue when talking about the leading forces of the New Democratic Revolution.
Second, the peasant class is the main force of the Chinese revolution and the major part of the "masses". Peasants account for about 80% of the total population, and 4 out of 5 Chinese are peasants. The so-called "masses" mainly refer to peasants. The main content of the democratic revolution is anti-feudalism, fundamentally eliminating the landlord's feudal land ownership. The main force against feudalism is peasants, who are the most heavily oppressed by feudalism. Therefore, the issue of peasants is "the basic subject of the Chinese revolution, and the power of peasants is the main force of the Chinese revolution". The characteristic of the Chinese revolution is the armed revolution against armed anti-revolution, and peasants are the main source of Chinese troops. Soldiers are just peasants in uniform. Therefore, in 1936, Mao Zedong pointed out sharply during his conversation with Snow in Shaanxi that whoever wins the peasants in China will win the revolution. How to lead the peasant revolution? Mao Zedong pointed out that we must liberate the peasants, take land revolution as the central content of the democratic revolution, completely eradicate the feudal landlord land ownership, and implement "those who cultivate shall have their fields". We must also educate the peasants, arm the advanced part of the peasants with Marxist theory, arouse the peasants' awareness, and overcome their own weaknesses. The Chinese revolution mainly rely on the power of workers and peasants.
Chinese peasants include the rich, middle, and poor peasants. The rich peasants, who account for about 5% of the rural population, are the rural bourgeoisie. They have semi-feudal characteristics, but they may remain neutral in the land revolution against landlords. Middle peasants, who make up about 20% of the rural population, are economically self-sufficient and politically powerless. They can participate in the anti-imperialist and anti-feudal struggle, can accept socialism, can become a reliable ally of the proletariat, and are an important part of the revolutionary force. The poor peasants and tenant farmers, who constitute about 70% of the rural population, are the semi-proletariat in the countryside, and the broadest driving force for the Chinese revolution, and the proletariat's natural and most reliable allies. Even though Chinese peasants are divided into three classes, the main forces leading the Chinese revolution are the poor and middle peasants. Only by forming a solid alliance with the poor and middle peasants can the proletariat lead the revolution to victory.
Third, the petty bourgeoisie is one of the basic driving forces for the Chinese revolution.



During the period of the New Democratic Revolution, the petty bourgeoisie other than peasants includes the majority of intellectuals, small traders, artisans, and freelancers. Their status was somewhat similar to that of middle peasants, oppressed by imperialism, feudalism, and the bourgeoisie, and gradually heading towards bankruptcy and decline. Therefore, these petty bourgeois groups served as one of the driving forces for the Chinese revolution and were reliable allies of the proletariat. Among them, intellectuals and young students often played a pioneering and bridging role in the Chinese revolution. Especially the relatively impoverished intellectuals, who were capable of joining and supporting the revolution alongside workers and peasants. The propagation and acceptance of Marxism-Leninism in China primarily occurred among intellectuals and young students. The development of revolutionary forces and the establishment of the revolutionary cause would not have been successful without the participation of these revolutionary intellectuals. Some among them were easily influenced by the bourgeoisie and often had a tendency towards subjectivity and individualism, hence it was necessary to carry out revolutionary propaganda and organization work among them.
  
Fourthly, the national bourgeoisie was one of the driving forces in the Chinese revolution. The Chinese national bourgeoisie emerged in the 1870s, later than the Chinese proletariat, and mainly originated from two sources: firstly, they were transformed from landlords, bureaucrats, and traders who directly invested in modern enterprises run by the government, joint ventures between the government and merchants, and businesses run solely by merchants. Secondly, they were transformed from owners of hand-made workshops that adopted machine production. Therefore, the Chinese national bourgeoisie can be further divided into the upper and middle-lower classes. The upper class owned large-scale enterprises and substantial economic strength and had close connections with foreign capitalism and national feudalism, often holding dual positions in both government and business. In contrast, middle-lower class enterprises and capital were generally smaller in scale, had fewer connections with foreign capitalism and national feudalism, and more contradictions.

In general, the Chinese national bourgeoisie is a dual-natured class, having both revolutionary demands and wavering traits. On the one hand, they had been oppressed by imperialism and restricted by feudalism, had conflicts with imperialism and feudalism, and thus they possessed anti-feudal revolutionary traits, forming one of the forces of revolution. On the other hand, they were weak in both economic and political terms, had not completely severed economic ties with imperialism and feudalism, lacked the courage to thoroughly oppose imperialism and feudalism, and were prone to wavering and compromise during the revolution.

The ambivalence of the Chinese national bourgeoisie is not related to the timidity during the period of original capital accumulation, nor is it a "new problem" occurring when their interests are threatened after the rise of the proletariat and the peasantry. This was an "old problem" they have carried since birth. The ambivalence of the national bourgeoisie is inherent and always present. When their revolutionary nature dominates, there are also tendencies to compromise with enemies, and they are unwilling to completely oppose imperialism and feudalism in their revolutionary agenda, which initially defined the democratic nature of the Chinese revolution. But for a long time afterwards, understanding of this issue was not profound. After the failure of the Great Revolution, the perception within the Chinese Communist Party of the nature of the revolution once fell into a mess. The 6th National Congress of the Communist Party of China made a correct judgment on the nature of the Chinese revolution, but afterwards, there was the occurrence of "left-leaning" opportunism, and the mistake of confusing the boundaries between democratic revolution and socialist revolution. The nature of the Chinese revolution was truly understood from the combination of theory and practice, and scientifically explained by Mao Zedong's works, including "The Chinese Revolution and the Chinese Communist Party," and "On New Democracy," among others.




Connected with the revolutionary nature is the question of the revolutionary future. Generally speaking, the future of the bourgeois democratic revolution lies in establishing a capitalist system under the dictatorship of the bourgeoisie, which is not the case for the China revolution. The China revolution no longer aims to develop capitalism as its ultimate goal, but instead, follows a new path of New Democratic revolution. Under the leadership of the proletariat, it aims to establish a state under the people's democratic dictatorship, and through the New Democracy revolution, it eventually aims to reach the goal of socialism. The issue of the future of the New Democratic revolution is essentially a question of how to deal with the relationship between the democratic revolution and the socialist revolution. For this, Mao Zedong clearly proposed the idea of China's revolution taking "two steps". He pointed out: the China revolution must be divided into two steps: the first step is to change the semi-colonial and semi-feudal social form, making China an "independent New Democratic country, the second step is to advance the revolution to establish a socialist society. In short, the first step is democracy, and the second step is socialism. “The Chinese Communist Party-led entire Chinese revolutionary movement includes both the democratic revolution and the socialist revolution phases; these are two revolutions of different nature, and only after completing the previous revolutionary process can the next revolutionary process be possible.”
Strictly distinguishing between the nature of the New Democratic revolution and the socialist revolution does not mean severing the connection between these two revolutions. The relationship between the two is like the relationship between the first and second part of an article; only when the first part is well done, can the second part be done well. In general, “the democratic revolution is the necessary preparation for the socialist revolution, and the socialist revolution is the inevitable trend of the democratic revolution. And the ultimate goal of all communists is to strive for the final completion of socialist society and communist society”. There were two wrong tendencies within the Chinese Communist Party regarding the future of the revolution: one was to separate the two closely connected stages of the revolution, only seeing the differences between the two without recognizing their connection, and inserting a stage of bourgeois dictatorship and capitalist development between the two stages; the other was to advocate that the democratic and socialist revolutions “accomplish their tasks in one stroke", attempting to combine the two revolutionary stages of different nature into one step, thereby blurring the boundary between the democratic and socialist revolutions. Both of these wrong tendencies violate the laws of China's revolution development. Therefore, Mao Zedong profoundly concluded that only by recognizing the difference between the New Democratic revolution and the socialist revolution, and also recognizing their connection, can the Chinese revolution be led correctly.

After the failure of the Grand Revolution, when the Chinese Communist Party decided to resist the reactionary rule of the Kuomintang through armed force, how to achieve victory in the armed struggle? What should the revolution path be? This is another problem that the Chinese Communist Party encountered in leading the Chinese revolution. Establishing armed struggle as the primary form of revolutionary struggle was a historic progress. However, for a while, the party fell into the pitfall of "Urban Center Theory" in its exploration of China's revolutionary path.
In the Soviet Union, the proletariat carried out the violent revolution by directly arming the working class and seizing revolutionary victories through uprisings in central cities.



Lenin developed Marxism in the process of leading the Russian Revolution, proposing that the proletariat must seize power with the city as the center. Lenin believed that only the proletariat concentrated in the central cities of capitalist countries could completely smash the bourgeoisie. "Cities must inevitably lead the countryside. The countryside must inevitably follow the city." Therefore, seizing power in the central city has strategic significance for seizing national power. At the same time, Lenin pointed out that once the proletariat launches an uprising, it must courageously continue to attack. The basic principles of Marxism-Leninism are undoubtedly correct, but revolutions in various countries have their own characteristics. Therefore, when the Communist International guided the Chinese revolution according to the Soviet model, and the Chinese Communists sanctified the instructions of the Communist International, a "left-leaning" dogmatic line guiding the Chinese revolution evolved.

After the October Revolution in Russia, the theory of city centrism was introduced to China with Marxism. After the Chinese Communist Party joined the Communist International after the Second Congress of the Party in 1922 and became a branch of the Communist International in China, the theory and policies of the Communist International had a profound impact on the formulation of major policies of the Chinese Communist Party. During the Great Revolution, the Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party followed the instructions of the Communist International and took the "city center" path. At that time, because the first Kuomintang-Communist cooperation was realized, the revolutionary Kuomintang not only had a unified revolutionary base in Guangdong, but also had an army of tens of thousands of national revolutionary army; And the target of the revolution, the Beiyang warlords, was divided and cut, without a unified central government. Therefore, the Northern Expedition initiated from Guangzhou jointly led by the Kuomintang and the Communist Party once achieved great victories. This shows that the path of the Northern Expedition to seize the center city is fundamentally correct. This is determined by the special historical conditions at that time. After the failure of the Great Revolution, China's political situation has undergone a drastic change. The former allies have become fierce enemies. They have established a unified government, have a powerful army, occupy the central city, and carry out a bloody slaughter policy against communists and revolutionary people. In this situation, the experience of foreign urban centralism is obviously not suitable for China's national conditions. Mao Zedong later pointed out: "If the revolutionary ranks are unwilling to compromise with imperialism and its running dogs, but want to persist in fighting, and if the revolutionary ranks are to prepare to accumulate and exercise their own strength and avoid decisive battles with powerful enemies when they are not strong enough", they must resolutely change their line, namely, leaving the center city and moving towards the rural areas in the mountains. There, they can rebuild a solid base to "counter the brutal enemy attacking the rural areas from the city and gradually win the entire victory in the long-term battle." This change in the revolutionary line not only allows Marxism but also is the most essential requirement and expression of Marxism. However, at that time, due to the lack of a unified understanding of Marxist theory and Chinese revolutionary practice, the Chinese Communist Party was still unable to get rid of the influence of the theory of the city center, and still insisted on the view that the city was the center of the revolutionary struggle. Therefore, the influence of the theory of the city center has become a prominent obstacle encountered by the Chinese Communist Party in exploring a new path for the Chinese revolution during the period of the Land Revolution War.

The influence of the "urban center theory" on the Chinese Communist Party can be divided into several stages...

The first stage was from the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) Central Committee's August 1927 Eighth Seventh Meeting to June 1928's Sixth CCP Congress. In this stage, the influence of the city center theory mainly manifested in several uprisings led by the CCP Central Committee around the time of the Eighth Seventh Meeting, attempting to advance the revolution through initiating uprisings in cities. For example, in the Autumnal Uprising in Hunan, both the Central and Hunan Provincial Committee advocated for initiating the uprising in Changsha city. The Hunan Provincial Committee mentioned in a letter to the Central Committee, "The Changsha Uprising and the Autumnal Uprising are one and the same. The Changsha Uprising is the starting point of the Autumnal Uprising." The Central Committee agreed with this "in principle.” Similarly, in the case of the Guangzhou Uprising, the Central Committee believed it "is the beginning of the general uprising in Guangdong and a signal for workers and farmers' uprisings nationwide.” As such, the Central's idea of initiating the uprising in the city is fully reflected in the uprisings after the failure of the great revolution. Starting from October 1927, instructions from the Central to provinces such as Hunan, Hubei, Jiangxi, Guangdong, and Fujian also proposed to launching widespread guerrilla warfare and land revolution, creating "an independent and separate situation” and "establishing a basis for the peasant revolution". However, this did not mean that the Central had given up on the city center theory; on the contrary, the Central still advocated for "the city of the uprising to become the center and guide of spontaneous peasant uprisings”.

Under this ideological guidance, the Central required Hunan to "plan the overall uprising around Changsha". The Central Committee mentioned in a letter to the Guangdong Provincial Committee that although the Chinese revolution has formed a special method of "peasant separatism", the development of this separatism "must obtain" the larger cities in each region, and the leadership of the working class should be demonstrated "on this basis". This shows that regardless of the Central's changes in the specific form of the uprising, as well as some degree of attention to rural separatism, the idea centered on the city has not changed.

The situation of the Party Central Committee was largely due to the influence of the Comintern. On February 25, 1928, the ninth expanded meeting of the Communist International Executive Committee made a "Resolution on the Chinese issue", emphasizing that the Chinese revolution should continue to follow the "city center" route and criticized the rural guerrilla warfare led by the CCP Central Committee. This resolution points out that the rural uprisings must be connected with the climax of the city revolution, to "become the starting point for the national uprising", and the Party's primary task is to prepare for the coordination of the city and the countryside in the upcoming provinces, and not focus only on armed uprisings and guerrilla warfare in the countryside, neglecting to make the city the center. In this way, guerrilla warfare is bound to fail. It also proposed that "we must oppose the indulgence with guerrilla warfare, against sinking into disorganized, unrelated, and inevitable failed guerrilla warfare". Clearly, the Russian revolution model centered on the city was used to guide the Chinese revolution. This subjective idealism, without considering China's actual conditions, brought serious impacts to the Chinese revolution.

The second stage was from the Sixth CCP Congress to the September 1930 Sixth Plenary Session of the Three Central Committees. In this stage, the CCP Central Committee emphasized the need to focus work in the cities and, under the rule of "left-leaning" adventurousness, arranged city uprisings and actions to attack large cities.



At the 6th National Congress of the Communist Party of China held between June and July 1928, the Communist International still guided the Chinese revolution with the theory of urban centrality. In the report made by Communist International representative Bukharin at the beginning of the congress, he did not acknowledge that the guerrilla warfare led by the Chinese Party was a positive exploration to accumulate and develop revolutionary forces based on China's reality, and to seek new paths for the Chinese revolution. He criticized the armed uprisings of peasants initiated by the Chinese Communist Party in some places and the establishment of revolutionary bases as "valuing peasants more than workers". In his conclusion to the congress, he also opposed the founding principle of the Chinese Red Army, believing that the Chinese Red Army were "non-productive masses" with only a single task of fighting wars; he proposed that the Red Army should be "dispersed to various places", roaming around and engaging in guerrilla warfare, playing the role of a peasant self-defense force.

After the 6th National Congress of the Communist Party of China, the Communist International expressed such concern, that is, fearing that the Chinese Communist Party's long-term development in rural areas would turn into a "peasant party". They believed that the party's work should be centered in cities and carry out worker movements to reflect the leadership of the proletarian party; if the work was centered in rural areas and there were many peasant party members, it would not be a proletarian party, but a peasant party instead. This essentially emphasized that the Chinese Communist Party must walk the path of "urban centrality". On October 26, 1929, the letter from the Communist International Executive Committee to the Chinese Communist Party Central Committee on the reorganization of the Kuomintang and the tasks of the Chinese Communist Party emphasized that the Chinese Communist Party "must exert all its strength to develop political strikes and prepare for a general political strike."

By October 1930, although the Communist International recognized the imbalance between the Chinese labor movement and the peasant movement, they still emphasized to the Chinese Communist Party that "establishing the Soviet government means that the Chinese Communist Party intends to launch an armed uprising in the largest industrial centers." They essentially guided the Chinese Communist Party's actions using the specific model of the typical October Revolution.

On April 28, 1928, when the Chinese Communist Party Central Committee Political Bureau discussed the "February Resolutions" issued by the Communist International, whether it was intimidated by the criticism of the Communist International or to demonstrate loyalty to the international line, most of the people spoke out in support of the international instructions. They believed that since the August 7 Conference, our party had underrated the power of urban working class, which led to a comparatively passive or even abandoned urban work, "which is not right". They believed that not focusing on urban worker movements was a reflection of "peasant leadership", and they introduced the notion of "opposing peasant consciousness". Based on this discussion, on the 30th, the Central Political Bureau issued the "Notice Regarding the Resolutions of the Communist International", which pointed out that the failure of armed uprisings in the countryside was "due to the lack of urban leadership, and inappropriate coordination and contact". It criticized the provincial committees in Hunan and Hubei for calling for "rural unrest but not city" since the autumn harvest uprising, and "indulging in" guerrilla warfare. It called for party organizations everywhere to "restore urban work and establish the leadership of urban workers to the countryside", emphasizing that "cities are the leaders of rural areas".

Under the above-mentioned guiding spirit, the theme of urban centrality still deeply influenced the Chinese Communist Party after the 6th National Congress. Firstly, the work of the party should be centered in cities. The Chinese Communist Party Central Committee believed that after the Great Revolution failed, many party organizations moved to rural areas. The peasant consciousness made the Chinese Communist Party "at risk of deviating from the proletariat". To ensure the nature of the party and create a proletarian base for the party, the Chinese Communist Party Central Committee suggested selecting industrial areas and important cities as the "centers of work". Because "the city is the center of all political and economic activities, it can lead the countryside. Once we seize the city, the countryside can quickly follow... we must change the overall work spirit from purely rural to focus on the city". Even when carrying out work in the countryside, "we should pay special attention to the rural areas close to the city", and should never lean towards the development in remote rural areas. This city-centric perspective severely hindered the shift in the focus of the party's work.

Secondly, it ignored the peasant war and Soviet base areas. At that time, the Chinese Communist Party Central Committee believed that in the new height of the revolution, the peasant war was a major tributary, and the primary symbol of the revolutionary climax was still the revival of the worker movement.



Therefore, in the work of the party, it should be firmly believed that the establishment of a number of branches in every heavy industry is even more valuable than our division of a village with hundreds of comrades in rural areas. During Li Lisan's "leftist" adventurous error period, this tendency became even more severe. The central government emphasizes that the uprising in the central city is of decisive significance, criticizing the surround the cities with rural areas as "an illusion", "an absolutely erroneous concept", and criticizing focus on rural work as a "peasant consciousness". Thus, the idea of rural rule, which had been agreed upon before the Sixth Congress of the Communist Party, was criticized as a mistake. This perception is undoubtedly a regression.

Third, propose the adventurous plan of attacking central cities. In early 1930, due to the certain degree of recovery of revolutionary forces, the warlord melee provided a good opportunity for the development of the revolutionary struggle, the central government made a wrong estimation of the situation, thinking that the revolutionary situation was mature and heading to a climax. Under this circumstance, preparing for one or several provinces to unite and establish the national revolutionary government became the general guideline for the party's current strategy, emphasizing that the first area to be captured should be "a place of significance in politics and economy for national leadership", like Shanghai or Wuhan. In this way, the capture of large cities was put forward as the main task. The Central Committee emphasizes that to capture large cities, there must be armed uprisings of workers. This is the "most important" condition for a successful uprising. Therefore, the military work should put "arming workers" in the first place on the agenda. The central government asked for a total strike and even armed rebellion in Shanghai, and a soldier rebellion in Nanjing, in order to suit the early victory of Wuhan and its neighboring provinces. At the same time, the Red Army was also given the task of attacking large cities, requiring the Red Army "to develop towards the central cities of important transportation routes in strategy and tactics". Obviously, at that time, the CPC Central Committee aimed to seize the central city by coordinating the urban workers' rebellion and the Red Army's attack, and achieve the initial victory of one or several provinces centered on Wuhan.

Fourth, deny the imbalance of revolutionary development. At that time, the central government overestimated the development of the revolutionary situation, exaggerated the instability of enemy rule, and denied the imbalance of revolutionary development, believing that "the fundamental crisis of Chinese economy and politics is sharpening in the same way everywhere in the country without any fundamental difference." The revolutionary situation is "most obviously the balanced development of the Red Army of workers, peasants, and soldiers". Under this circumstance, "any issue is possible to spark a revolutionary climax". When the national revolutionary climax comes, "the beginning of a province or several provinces' uprising is the beginning of a national uprising", "the initial victory of one province or several provinces is the beginning of national victory". This estimate actually denies the possibility of one or several provinces' initial success.

It cannot be denied that the Central Committee of the Party after the Sixth Congress also paid more attention to the development of the Red Army in rural areas and the conduct of rural guerrilla warfare. However, the Central Committee of the Party raised this issue from the perspective of winning over the masses and preparing for urban uprising. The development of the Red Army and rural guerrilla warfare has always been included in the track of city uprisings. As the "leftist" adventurers pursued the policy of seizing large cities, the work of the Party was greatly damaged.



Despite the Party's primary focus being on urban work, the outcome did not meet the Central Committee's expectations, and instead, there were significant losses. In just over two months, 11 provincial committee offices were destroyed by enemies, the number of party members in large enterprises was scant, and the fluctuating status of urban branches were all beyond unacceptable. Simultaneously, the Central Committee's decision to mobilize the Red Army to attack central cities away from their base resulted in varying degrees of losses for both the Red Army and their base. The overemphasis on urban centrism negatively impacted the development of rural revolutionary struggles.

The third phase started from the Third Plenary Session of the Sixth Congress of the Communist Party of China in September 1930 to the failure of the Fifth Counter "Encirclement" Campaign. During this phase, the urban-centric theory further harmed the Chinese Revolution and was practically declared bankrupt.

The Third Plenary Session of the Sixth Party Congress ended Li Li-san's “Left” adventurous error (known as the "Li-san Line"), and there was a cessation of urban riots and large city attacks, yet the influence of the urban-centric theory still lingered. After the failure of the Li-san Line, under the direct direction of the Communist International, the even more "leftist" "Left" dogmatic error orchestrated by Wang Ming once again dominated the Party Central Committee. The Wang Ming Line reintroduced the risky mistake of seizing central cities and primarily advocated for the Red Army to attack central cities and decisively battle with enemy troops. The urban-centric theory brought serious losses to the revolution in its new manifestation.

During this period, the revolutionary situation underwent some changes. On the one hand, the Red Army and their base made significant progress in the revolutionary war. On the other hand, the Party's work in the White-controlled areas suffered severe setbacks. Party organizations at all levels were continually destroyed, and city workers' strikes, fly-in rallies, and even armed uprisings mostly ended in failure. This situation made it necessary for the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China to shift its guiding ideology, placing more focus on the Red Army warfare and rural revolutionary bases. In the spring of 1933, the Provisional Central Committee moved from Shanghai to the Central Soviet Area, which objectively was a progressive change. However, this change was forced and unconscious. Despite the Provisional Central Committee moving to rural areas, the essential idea of urban centrality persisted. This was mainly manifested in the belief of achieving initial victories in one or several provinces via the Red Army seizing central cities. Under the dominion of Wang Ming's "Left" dogmatic error, the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China did not understand the long-term and tortuous nature of the Chinese Revolution. Although they criticized Li Li-san's premature risk-taking command for the Red Army to attack major cities, their divergence with Li was not about whether to capture central cities in order to achieve initial victories in a few provinces, but about the estimation of the situation and when such captures can be carried out. Therefore, as soon as there were any shifts in the situation, the Central Committee would repeat the mistake of attacking major cities. And this was exactly what happened. Shortly after the 918 Incident, the Central Committee proposed: "The previously correct strategy of not occupying major cities is now different," "Taking advantage of the current favorable political and military conditions to occupy one or two major central cities to start the revolution's initial victory in several provinces is now on the party's overall work and Soviet movement Agenda".



"From then on, the overall strategy of our central operations became to seize the central cities and achieve initial victories in several provinces. Even when we faced consistent setbacks during the fifth "encirclement" campaign, when the Red Army was in a very passive situation, the central authority still repeatedly emphasized the need to seize the central cities and achieve the first victory in multiple provinces. Under this strategy, the central authority criticized the theoretical line of Mao Zedong and others who advised consolidating and expanding the revolutionary base in rural areas as the "theory of the Soviet on the mountain". They also disdained the assertion made by Deng Xiaoping, Mao Zeqin, Xie Weijun, and Gu Bo that "developing Soviets towards central cities and important traffic routes is impossible". The central authority instead advocated developing large rural areas where enemy forces were relatively weak and condemned this as "the pessimistic disappointment" of "advocating the abandonment of the Soviet base area" and tried to push out Mao Zedong and strike against Deng, Mao, Xie, and Gu.

Regarding the strategy to seize the central cities and achieve the first victory in multiple provinces, this stage differs from the previous two stages. Although the central sometimes also mentioned the armed uprising of cities, the main emphasis was on using the military offensive of the Red Army to seize central cities and achieve the first victory in multiple provinces. The main reason for this different approach was due to severe losses in city work and the gradual increase in Red Army's strength, the Central was forced by the situation and insisted on the thesis of city center with a new method.

Second, the Red Army war was commanded with an "active offensive" route and regular war strategy. The "left-leaning" central misunderstood Marx's principle of continuous attack after the armed uprising and proposed that the "primary key" of all strategic tactics is to "eliminate the enemy under the attack line" and to carry out the so-called "total offensive", "capture of central cities" and "two fists hitting the enemy" strategic tactics. In order to implement the active offensive tactic, the central authority unilaterally emphasized the regular war and proposed to oppose the "conservative guerrilla war strategy". They required the Red Army to become regularized, and that "the main force of the Red Army must be concentrated, and must act as quickly as possible", and to enable the Red Army to "make full effort in the decisive battle".

The Central denied that the form of China's revolutionary warfare was a long-term repetition of "encirclement" and anti-"encirclement". They considered the fifth anti-"encirclement" as a "class decisive battle", and believed that crushing the fifth "encirclement" would resolve the question of "who wins between the Soviet road and the colonial road". Under this misguided thinking, the Central Command led the fifth anti-"encirclement" war with the principle of so-called regular warfare, opposing "guerrillaism", opposing enticing the enemy to go deeper, advocating "guarding the enemy outside the country's gate", and promoting the defensive tactics of the inner line and fortress, which directly led to the failure of the fifth anti-"encirclement".

The Central Committee of the Communist Party of China during the Wang Ming dictatorship period guided the work of the Red Army and base areas with erroneous city views, which caused great damage to the Chinese revolution. The failure of the fifth anti-"encirclement" proved that the city-centric theory, in whatever form it appears, does not conform to China's national conditions and can only bring losses to the Chinese Revolution. The failure of the fifth anti-"encirclement" declared the end of the city-centric theory in China's history.

The failure of the fifth anti-"encirclement" led to a crisis in the Chinese revolution. In this critical juncture, in January 1935, the Central Committee held the Zunyi Conference during the Long March. The meeting focused on correcting the military mistakes that were decisive at the time, summarized the lessons from the failure of the fifth anti-"encirclement", and ended the rule of Wang Ming’s "Left" dogmatism in the party central committee. The meeting made a resolution based on the Mao Zedong's speech, "On the Summary of The Opposition to the Enemy's Five 'Encirclements'", it pointed out: "The civil war in China is not a short-term war, but a protracted and enduring war. The Soviet revolution developed and consolidated through continuously crushing the enemy's 'encirclement'." Under the principle of protracted warfare, we must oppose conservatism, as well as "adventurism produced by overestimating our own victories and underestimating enemy forces."."



The resolution specifically pointed out: The adventurism of such "uncertain and unnecessary attacks on the central city at the time" has caused serious damage to the Red Army and the revolutionary war. In fact, it criticized the theory of the urban center and thus truly began the shift of the entire party's focus.

After the Red Army's Long March reached northern Shaanxi, although the party central committee deployed extensive work to expand into the five provinces of Shanxi, Shaanxi, Gansu, Sui, and Ning, it was no longer centered on the victory in several provinces with cities as the center. The CCP Central Committee believes: "The Chinese Soviet revolution has already achieved preliminary victories in some provinces", the kind of view that it is necessary to occupy central cities and provincial capitals for a province or several provinces to achieve preliminary victories is "unfactual". After the Wa Yao Bu meeting, Mao Zedong wrote in the article "On the Strategy against Japanese Imperialism", describing the uneven development of China's political and economic development and corresponding uneven characteristics of the revolution, as well as the long-term characteristics of the revolution caused by the enemy's strength and our weakness, the conclusion was drawn that "the victory of the revolution always starts, develops, and achieves initial success first in places where counter-revolutionary forces are relatively weak." Thus, the CCP Central Committee replaced and denied the view of the initial victory in one or several provinces centered on cities with the idea of initial victory in areas where enemy rule is weak with rural areas as the center, completing a major change in the issue of the Chinese revolution road. This is the result of a group of Chinese Communists, represented mainly by Mao Zedong, persisting in long-term rural revolutionary warfare, constantly summarizing experience and lessons, and struggling against "left" errors.

Third, the party's summary of the "urban center theory" practice
The Communist Party of China is good at summarizing experience and lessons from failures and setbacks. The painful results of the practice of the urban center theory made the Communist Party of China deeply realize: First, the urban center theory has a profound influence on the Communist Party of China, no matter what form it takes, it can only bring harm to the revolutionary cause. Firstly, it made the CCP Central Committee persist in the idea of revolution centered on cities for a long time, first with the city as the center of the uprising, then with the city as the center of daily work, and even under the circumstance of the central government moving into rural areas, it still called for the seizure of central cities, and guided the work of the Red Army and the base areas with this idea for a long time; secondly, it made the party central committee regard the armed uprising of workers as the decisive force for a long time, and could not recognize the extreme importance of peasant wars; thirdly, it made the party central committee command the Red Army war with the principle of the armed uprising of the European proletariat revolution, and could not recognize the laws and characteristics of the Chinese revolutionary war. In summary, the urban center theory has seriously affected the shift of the work focus of the Communist Party of China, resulting in the Communist Party of China not being able to accept the correct revolutionary road represented by Mao Zedong for a considerable period of time, and the revolutionary cause has suffered setbacks repeatedly. Of course, in the practice of leading the Chinese revolution by the CCP Central Committee, their ideological understanding also changed. For example, the view of the first victory in a province or several provinces gave the urban center theory a Chinese color, which was in line with the actual situation in China, so it was accepted when people did not deeply understand the characteristics of the Chinese revolution. In this sense, the idea of first victory in a province or several provinces played a transitional role in the process of the party shaking off the influence of the urban center theory. But essentially, it is the product of the urban center theory. However, the CCP Central Committee at that time always failed to comprehend that the seizure of the central city is the last stage of the Chinese democratic revolution, and regarded the seizure of the central city in the short term as a prerequisite for achieving the first victory in a province or several provinces. Here, the influence of the urban center theory is prominently displayed, becoming a kind of barrier hindering the Communist Party of China from deepening its understanding of the problems of the Chinese revolution. Facts have proved that no matter what form the urban center theory manifests in China, it can only bring harm to the revolution.

Second, the reason why the urban center theory cannot lead the Chinese revolution to victory is that it is not a product of China's social, political, and economic development and does not conform to China's actual situation.



The soil from which the theory of central cities arose is the European capitalist society, reflecting the laws and characteristics of the European proletarian revolution. However, China's national conditions are different from those of Europe and have great specificity. Looking at the development of China's social economy: due to the invasion of imperialism, China lost the opportunity to develop capitalism independently. The social economy of China did not follow the usual laws of capitalist economic development to form a unified urban and rural market, nor did the city gain economic control over the countryside. China's big cities can be divided into two types. One is cities that have continued from history, such as Beijing. They are mainly the centers of feudal political power and consumption, not production. Economically, these cities cannot control the countryside. The other type is emerging economic and political centers, such as Shanghai. However, the economic lifeline of these cities is in the hands of imperialism. This kind of urban economy can only be the economy of a semi-colonial society and cannot compare with the economic centers of the West. Regarding rural economy, in most parts of China, the feudal mode of production still dominates, so it is hard to say that industrial cities have a decisive influence on the vast rural areas. During the development of capitalism in China, farmers near commercial ports would undoubtedly be impacted by the commodity economy, speeding up the process of separating laborers from the means of production. However, this separation process was primarily not caused by the prosperity of industry and commerce but by feudal factors such as feudal land ownership and super-economic coercive exploitation. In the vast areas far from commercial ports where transportation is inconvenient, the natural economy still predominates. In China, not only is the economic development between urban and rural areas uneven, but the economic development between rural and rural areas is also uneven. Therefore, Chinese cities and villages are not under a unified economic form. Cities cannot control the vast rural areas, and rural areas can be self-sufficient without cities. Under these conditions, cities can play an important role in the revolution, but they cannot have the absolute authority role like European cities. Looking at the comparison of class forces: the absolute number of the Chinese proletariat is no less than the number of Russian workers during the October Revolution. However, due to China's large population, the relative number of the working class is very small. During the October Revolution, Russian workers accounted for 1/6 of the total population, but at this time Chinese workers only accounted for 1/200 of the total population. Therefore, the main force of the revolution is not the workers but the peasants. The leading role of the proletariat cannot be reflected in actions such as city strikes and riots, but is reflected in sending their vanguards to the countryside to lead the peasants in land revolutions and revolutionary wars. The proletariat leads the peasants, it cannot be like Europe where urban workers participate in the fight first to mobilize peasants. 
Looking at China's political situation: China has been a feudal centralized authoritarian state for thousands of years and has no democratic tradition. Since the Revolution of 1911, there has been some democratic propaganda, but this propaganda is very shallow due to a short time, deep-rooted old ideas, and other reasons. After Chiang Kai-shek came to power, he still continued the tradition of feudal autocracy and added fascist methods. The more centralized the city, the stricter the reactionary rule, and the more likely the revolutionary activities are to be suppressed.



In this circumstance, with no parliament available for exploitation and no room for open activities in cities, power cannot be accumulated. Therefore, the Chinese revolution could not use the cities as a base to directly seize supreme power, but could only use the rural areas as bases for revolution, attacking the cities from the rural areas and finally gaining national power. 
The aforementioned socio-historical conditions determined that the Chinese revolution could not follow the path of European revolutions, urban-centric theories simply did not work in China.
Thirdly, it took the Chinese Communist Party Central Committee a winding and long process to rid the influence of the urban-centric theory. This illustrates that correctly combining Marxism with the practices of the Chinese revolution is a daunting and complicated task. Objectively,China is an extremely complex large country. At the turning point after the failure of the great revolution, it was impossible for the Party Central Committee to fully understand the national conditions of the revolutionary country and the laws and characteristics of the revolutionary movement in a short period of time, and to discover the correct path for revolution. In addition, the influence of the Communist International also added difficulties to the Chinese Communist Party's exploration of the revolutionary path. Subjectively, a major reason is to dogmatically treat Marxism and merely copy foreign experiences. Marx, Engels, and Lenin all greatly emphasized the leading role of cities in revolutions. As Marx and Engels see it, the leading role of cities is the proletariat's leadership over the peasants. Lenin has also said, "The bigger the city, the greater the proletariat's role in the struggle.” Of course,Marx, Engels, and Lenin never neglected the role of peasants, but they all discussed the issue from the perspective of winning over peasant allies, and they never mentioned that the proletariat's political parties should focus their work on the countryside from the perspective of the revolutionary road. Based on the Marx-Lenin doctrine,  Chinese Communists who are not adept at combining the principles of Marx and Lenin with the realities of the Chinese revolution would naturally take these principles of Marxism as a guide for action, and the city would naturally become the center of the party's work. This kind of thinking has been the orthodox view for quite a long time, and new ideas arising out of China's reality were regarded as "heresies" against Marxism. At that time, the domination of the party with the sanctification of Marx's doctrine as well as the resolutions of the Communist International and Soviet experiences, it was not easy to creatively apply the principles of Marxism. This is also a profound lesson that the retrospective of this history has left us.

In the arduous struggle of the whole Party to save the revolution and to find a new path for the revolution, a large number of Communists, represented mainly by Mao Zedong, through the practice of creating and developing the Red Army and the rural revolutionary base areas, began to gradually find a way to revive the Chinese revolution. This formed a theory that guided the Chinese revolution to victory. The proposal of the thought of "the armed enclaves of workers and peasants" signifies the beginning of the construction of this great theory.



Although the "urban centralist theory" still dominates within the Communist Party of China, faced with the difficult situation of the Chinese Revolution and the complex national conditions, the entire Party is also striving to explore and think about future prospects and ways forward. 

Because the speed and degree of revolutionary struggles vary across different regions, this prompted the CPC Central Committee to recognize the imbalance in China's socio-political and economic development, resulting in an uneven development of the revolution: 

Firstly, there is a disparity in the development of the worker-peasant movement, rural struggles have developed into guerrilla warfare, some areas have begun to establish separate regimes and established Soviets, while most cities have not developed to this extent. 

Secondly, there is an uneven development of revolutionary movements in different regions, some provinces have progressed to the point of seizing provincial government power through uprisings, but many provinces have not yet reached this level. 

Accordingly, at this stage, the CPC Central Committee proposed some arguments that differ from the Russian October Revolution model. 

Firstly, the proposition of the strategic objective of "first victory in one province or several provinces" was put forward. During the early stages of the Land Revolution War, the CPC Central Committee primarily deployed the armed uprisings in provinces like Hunan, Hubei, Jiangxi, and Guangdong. In fact, the uprisings led by the Party were mostly concentrated in these provinces, and the uprisings in the north did not flourish like they did in the southern provinces. This suggests that the Central Committee did not adopt the "one-strike" tactic used in the French Revolution and the Russian October Revolution to seize the capital. 

In November 1927, the Party Central Committee explicitly proposed to "unite the power of workers and farmers' uprisings, merge spontaneous workers and farmers' uprisings from all places, seize political power, ... until a revolutionary victory situation is created in one or several provinces". The Central Committee believed that under the situation of a general revolutionary upsurge, victories could first be achieved in areas where the enemy was weak, the revolutionary tide of workers and farmers was high, and the leadership of the Party was strongest. This initial victory would be the first step towards a nationwide victory; through establishing Soviet power to safeguard this victory, and then "expand the Soviet power to other regions and the whole of China with a population of 400 million". The Sixth National Congress of the CPC confirmed the strategic goal of striving for the first victory in one or several provinces, pointed out that under the condition of a revolutionary upsurge, victories could first be achieved in one province or several provinces.

Secondly, the idea of surrounding the cities by dividing the rural areas into different zones, enhancing the work in the cities, and finally completing the first victory in one or several provinces through urban uprisings was put forward. After the failure of the Guangzhou Uprising, the CPC Central Committee emphasized in its instructions to various regions that "occupying large cities is the final move when the struggle of the worker-peasant has matured in vast areas". Before this, while enhancing the struggle in central cities, the rural areas need to be divided into separate zones to create a separatist situation, "until the rural separatism is complete and the urban struggle reaches a climax, then a general uprising centered around the city can be initiated to fulfill the task of taking over the region".

Thus, the revolution mode of surrounding cities by partitioning rural areas into different zones, enhancing urban work, and finally accomplishing the first victory in one or multiple provinces through urban uprisings, has replaced the revolution mode of starting an uprising in cities then pushing to rural areas and taking the capital with "one strike". This represents the first step the CPC Central Committee has taken from the practical reality of China towards breaking away from the constraints of urban centralist theory. This has made an important contribution in enlightening the Party to explore and eventually accept the revolutionary path of rural areas surrounding the cities.

However, the CPC Central Committee's understanding of the uneven socio-political and economic development of China, especially the imbalance between urban and rural political and economic development is not profound, thus cannot genuinely break free from the constraints of urban centralism. At the same time, the goal of achieving "first victory in one or several provinces" does not truly reflect the uneven development law of Chinese revolution. The shortcomings inherent in it, under specific conditions, can still bring losses to the Chinese revolution.




In the exploration of the path of Chinese revolution, the truly significant ideological sprout is the proposal of the "Up the Mountain" thought within the Communist Party of China. The "Up the Mountain" thought is the initial form of the "Armed Struggle of Workers and Peasants" thought. 

Around the time of the 87th Meeting, the Communist Party of China Central Committee discussed the direction of the peasants' movement and armed peasants several times. At this time, Mao Zedong proposed the idea of "going up the mountain". In June 1927, Mao Zedong convened a meeting in Hankou with comrades from Hunan who had fled after the "May Day Mutiny". At this meeting, he called on everyone to return to their hometowns, proposed going to the mountains and going aboard ships on the lakesides, to resolutely struggle against the enemy and advocate for the armed defense of the revolution. 

He then returned to Hunan to serve as the provincial secretary, responsible for the work of the Hunan Provincial Committee, making the arrangements for members of the Peasants' Association and the Peasants' Self-Defense Army to "go up the mountain" and "into the lake", preserving the revolutionary strength and waiting for the right opportunity. On July 4, Mao Zedong proposed at an enlarged meeting of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China Central Committee: "The armed peasants can go up the mountain or join the army connected to the party", he clearly pointed out: "If we do not preserve the armed force, we will have no way to cope once an incident occurs." 

He believed that: The peasant army could go up the mountain, and predicted that "going up the mountain could form the basis of military power". On the 13th, the Communist Party of China Central Committee announced that it is now in "the critical moment of the revolution's survival". The Central Committee decided to launch a peasant autumn harvest uprising in four provinces — Hunan, Hubei, Jiangxi, and Guangdong — to advance the implementation of the land revolution. 

At the end of July, Mao Zedong was actively preparing for the Autumn Harvest Uprising and drafted the "Outline on the Hunan Movement" (hereinafter referred to as the "Outline") to report to the Central Committee. The "Outline" reflected Mao Zedong's thoughts on starting a military uprising, establishing a party-led army, forming an armed enclave, establishing a revolutionary government, and advancing the land revolution. On August 7, the Communist Party of China Central Committee secretly convened an emergency meeting in Hankou. Mao Zedong summarized the four lessons from the failure of the Great Revolution at the meeting: completely abandoning the independent political stance of the Communist Party, not paying attention to military issues, not raising a revolutionary program to solve the peasants' land issues and the party's separation from the masses. He emphasized that in the future they need to pay much attention to the military, knowing that political power is obtained from the barrel of a gun. 

At the 87th meeting, Mao Zedong was elected as a candidate member of the Temporary Political Bureau of the Central Committee. Cai Hesen suggested that Mao Zedong stay in central work while Qu Qiubai wanted Mao Zedong to go to Shanghai Central. Mao Zedong disagreed, he said: "I want to go out and carry out an armed uprising, I don’t want to live in high-rise buildings with you, I want to make friends with the green forest friends in the mountains." 

On August 9, Mao Zedong attended a meeting of the Temporary Central Political Bureau. He criticized the wrong proposition of the Hunan organization following the Nanchang Uprising troops to Guangdong, he believed: "Hunan's mass organization is even larger than Guangdong, what is lacking is arms." He clearly proposed: "We need to form a division of armed forces in Hunan, occupy five or six counties, form a political base, and develop land revolution throughout the province." He believed that even if the autumn harvest uprising fails, there is no need to go to Guangdong, they should go to the mountains. 

In mid-August, Mao Zedong was sent to Hunan as a special representative of the Communist Party of China Central Committee to lead the Autumn Harvest Uprising. On August 18, Mao Zedong, at the provincial committee meeting in Changsha, expressed important views on the issues of uprising and land. He advocated: the development of the Autumn Harvest Uprising in Hunan is the solution to the land issue of the peasants.



He pointed out: to start a rebellion, the power of the peasants alone is not enough, there must be military assistance. The development of the rebellion is to seize political power. Our party's previous mistake was ignoring the military. Now we should focus 60% of our energy on military activities, seizing power on the basis of the gun's barrel and establishing government. He believed: to fully grasp the peasants, we must confiscate the landlord's land and give it to the peasants. On September 9, Mao Zedong launched the Autumn Harvest Uprising in Hunan. The obvious characteristic of this uprising was: a large number of workers and peasant armed forces participated; publicly raised the banner of the Workers' and Peasants' Revolutionary Army. The initial goal of the uprising was still to seize the central city of Changsha. When the plans of various rebel forces to attack Changsha were frustrated, Mao Zedong showed his ability to learn lessons from practice in a timely manner, decisively changed the original deployment at the Wen's city meeting, decided to "transfer troops", led the rebel forces "up the mountains", and sought foothold in the weakly defended mountainous areas under enemy control. So, the Autumn Harvest Uprising forces retreated towards Pingxiang, south along the Luoxiao Mountains. After the "Three Bays restructuring", by the end of October, Mao Zedong led the forces to Ziping, Jinggangshan. After getting up the mountain, under the leadership of the former committee headed by Mao Zedong, the troops deeply mobilized the masses, helped the locals recover, rectify and establish party organizations, carried out land reforms, established the Red Guards and the Workers' and Peasants' Revolutionary Government, widely launched guerrilla warfare, vigorously strengthened the Red Army construction, Jinggangshan became the first peasant revolutionary base in the country, sparking the sparks of "armed occupation of workers and peasants" in practice.

However, the revolutionary practice of establishing peasant revolutionary bases represented by Mao Zedong was not accepted by the whole party at that time and could not be accepted by the Comintern. Many people in the party doubted whether a small or several revolutionary bases could exist for a long time. Dogmatists denounced this great creation as "peasant consciousness". The Comintern believed that "the Workers and Peasants' Revolution is moving towards a new climax". The policy line of the Communist Party of China is to prepare for a new revolutionary climax, whose main task is to prepare for a "wide mobilization" between cities and towns and neighboring provinces and regions. Therefore, we must oppose the "disorderly, unconnected, doomed to fail guerrilla warfare". In response to the instructions of the Comintern on the adaptation between city and countryside, and neighboring provinces and regions, the CPC Central Committee made specific arrangements for Hunan Province, from Pingyue along the border of Xianggan to the main road to Xiangyue as the main line of rebellion, to complete the total rebellion of the province. They placed the armed forces of the revolutionary base of Jinggangshan in the middle section of the Luoxiao Mountains, built by Mao Zedong, under the total rebellion of the province, and ordered Mao Zedong to lead the troops to attack Xiangnan, to "expand" the base, and to unite with Xiangnan and Yuebei. At that time, Mao Zedong also thought that establishing bases in the countryside was to coincide with the uprising in the central city, what was different was that he could determine the work guidelines based on the specific situation at that time. Mao Zedong had different views from the instructions of the CPC Central Committee and the Hunan Provincial Committee. Mao Zedong believed that in periods when the ruling class's rule is temporarily stable, we should not adopt the policy of spreading troops to expand, but only adopt the policy of consolidation. Mao Zedong summarized the experience and lessons of armed uprisings all over the country since the "Eight Seven" meeting, listed six reasons to explain why the Red Fourth Army should not go to Hunan to "expand" the base, but should first consolidate the revolutionary base in the middle section of the Luoxiao Mountains, with which to "carry on a long-term struggle with the enemy". Mao Zedong emphasized the significance of consolidating the revolutionary base. He said: "This argument is by no means a conservative idea. In the past, the national rebellion, at one time was thriving, but as soon as the enemy counterattacked, it was like washing away water, and it was completely defeated. This is because it does not seek to consolidate the foundation for a while, but only seeks great momentum. At this moment we will correct this disease, on the one hand, establishing a base for the military, and on the other hand, establish a consolidated foundation for the future of the rebellion in Hunan and Jiangxi provinces.



"However, Mao Zedong's correct opinion was not accepted, resulting in the "August Failure" in southern Hunan. After the failure in southern Hunan, the “Left” doctrinaire, who has always considered himself correct, still criticised Mao Zedong, stating that his idea of consolidating base areas was a conservative concept, arguing that the Red Army could only find a way out by actively expanding outward and expanding the Soviet regime, and so on.



Contrary to the "Left" doctrinaire who were eager to seize power through uprisings in central cities, a right-wing pessimistic view emerged within the base areas. Some Communist Party members overestimated the enemy's strength, couldn't perceive the contradictions within the enemy's camp, especially when they were defeated or surrounded from all sides, or pursued by a strong enemy, they saw these local setbacks and difficulties as overall and fundamental ones, prompting them to ask, "How long can the Red flag last?" Mao Zedong stated that this was a fundamental question, and without addressing whether the base areas of the Chinese revolution and the Chinese Red Army could exist and develop, we cannot move forward. Mao Zedong used the basic principles of Marxist violent revolution, summarized the experiences of building rural revolutionary bases in Jinggangshan and other places, wrote "Why can the Chinese Red Regime Exist?" and "The Struggle of Jinggangshan", and proposed the idea of "armed independence of workers and peasants".

Firstly, Mao Zedong discussed the reasons and conditions for the existence and development of the Red regime. He said: "In one country, the long-term existence of one small or several small areas of Red regime within the surrounding of White regime, is something that has never happened in any other country in the world. The occurrence of this wonder has its unique reasons. And its existence and development also require appropriate conditions."

First, the political and economic development of China is unbalanced. China is a semi-colonial and semi-feudal country with unbalanced political and economic development. The power of the ruling class is mainly concentrated in the cities, while the rural areas are much weaker. As a semi-feudal country, the local self-sufficient agricultural economy gives China's rural areas a relative independence. The rural areas have less dependence on the city, providing the proletariat with the economic conditions to mobilize the peasants, carry out armed struggle, and establish a Red regime in the countryside. As a semi-colonial country, many imperialists compete and partition their spheres of influence in China, manifested as continuous division and conflict among warlords. The proletariat can use the contradictions, divisions, and wars among the warlords to establish and develop revolutionary bases, enabling the Red regime to emerge and persist surrounded on all sides by the White regime. Mao Zedong pointed out: “We only need to know that the division and war of China's White regime continues without interruption, then there is no doubt that the Red regime's occurrence, existence, and gradual development.” At the same time, because China is a large country, there is room for the revolutionary forces to maneuver; suitable for establishing the Red regime, suitable for the Red Army to fight in favorable terrain. Mao Zedong chose to establish a base in the central section of the Luoxiao Mountains because of its good terrain."



Secondly, there is a solid mass foundation. The first occurrence and the ability to persist for a long period of the Red regime are in those places that have been influenced by the first Civil Revolutionary War and had experienced a surge of mass revolutionary movements. Such areas (such as Hunan, Jiangxi, Hubei, Guangdong, etc.) were major areas where the Northern Expedition had been, had party organizations, and the party had considerable influence among the masses. Trade unions and peasant associations were organized, and the working and peasant masses had struggled against the comprador landlord class. In such places, both the people and the army have received political training from the democratic revolution, therefore, the Red regime easily occurred and persisted here for a long term.

Thirdly, a progressing revolutionary situation. Whether small local people's governments can persist for a long period depends on whether the national revolutionary situation is progressing. Mao Zedong believed that if the national revolutionary situation is progressing, then the development and long-term existence of small-scale red regimes is unquestionable. On the contrary, it would be impossible. Then is China's revolutionary situation developing or not? Mao Zedong believed that after the failure of the Great Revolution, none of the basic contradictions that led to the Chinese revolution were resolved. Therefore, "the current situation of the Chinese revolution continues to develop with the ongoing sectarianism and war of the domestic comprador bourgeoisie and the international bourgeoisie." So, the red areas will also continue to develop, gradually approaching the acquisition of national power.

Fourthly, the presence of a sizeable formal Red Army. Mao Zedong believed that the existence of a sizeable formal Red Army is a necessary condition for the existence of the Red regime. If there is only the Red Guards without the formal Red Army, it cannot deal with the reactionary armed forces, it cannot create a separatist situation, and even if it does separate, it will not be long-term and increasingly developmental separations. He emphasized that "the thought of 'workers and peasants armed secession' is an important idea that the Communist Party and the working and peasant masses in the divided areas must fully possess."

Fifthly, the correct leadership of the Communist Party. The "Workers and Peasants Armed Division" is a division under the leadership of the Chinese Communist Party. The correct leadership of the Communist Party is a key factor in the existence and development of the Red regime. The border committee of the Hunan-Jiangxi border under the secretariat of Mao Zedong and the military commission under the secretariat of Chen Yi implemented the correct border policies, resolutely struggled against the enemy, created a government in the middle section of the Luoxiao Mountains, opposed escapism; carried out a deep land revolution in the separated areas; the party in the army helped the local party to develop, and the armed forces of the army helped the local armed development; took a defensive position against Hunan where the ruling power is relatively strong, took an offensive position against Jiangxi where the ruling power is relatively weak; used great efforts to construct Yongxin, created mass division, arranged for long-term struggle; concentrated the Red Army to counter possible enemies, opposed disbandment of troops, avoided being defeated one by one by the enemy; the expansion of the separated areas adopted a wave-like policy, opposed the policy of rash advance. In this way, there were various military victories from April to July in the base area of Jinggangshan. However, the blind directives from "left" dogmatists led to the "August Failure" in southern Hunan.



Among the five conditions, the first condition is the most important. It is precisely because of the semi-colonial and semi-feudal social nature of China that led to the imbalance in China's political and economic development, which provided the possibility of establishing a red regime. And it was based on the characteristics of China's social nature that Mao Zedong proposed a correct analysis of the reasons for the existence and development of the Red regime.

Secondly, Mao Zedong proposed the basic content of "armed worker-peasant separatism". What is "armed worker-peasant separatism"? It is the construction of a rural revolutionary base or a red regime with the principal content of land revolution under the leadership of the proletariat, with armed struggle as the main form, relying mainly on the revolutionary base, and land revolution as the main content.

Armed struggle is the main form of struggle in "armed worker-peasant separatism". Mao Zedong pointed out profoundly that China is a semi-colonial and semi-feudal country, without a democratic system internally, oppressed by the feudal system; without national independence externally, oppressed by imperialism. The enemies of the Chinese people - warlords, gentry, imperialism, all hold knives in their hands, ready to kill. In the face of such enemies, the main form of China's revolution must be armed. The revolution in China, which predominantly economic is agriculture, took the form of military development and uprising, which is a characteristic. Because without the armed forces, there can be no support for this separatism in the encirclement of the white regime from all sides. Mao Zedong stressed: The struggle at the border is entirely a military one, so both the party and the masses have to militarize. How to deal with the enemy? How to fight? Became the central issue in daily life. The so-called separatism must be armed. If there is no armed force in a place, or the armed force is not enough, or the strategy to deal with the enemy is wrong, the place will immediately be taken over by the enemy. Without armed struggle, there can be no existence of revolutionary base areas, no people's status, and there is no talk of the development of other tasks of the party. The party can only ensure the continuation of the farmer's land revolution, expand the separatist areas, construct and develop rural revolutionary bases by deeply mobilize the peasant masses and extensively carry out armed struggles.

The land revolution is the core content of "armed worker-peasant separatism". To carry out an anti-imperialist and anti-feudal democrat revolution, we must mobilize peasants to deeply initiate a land revolution, since the exploitation and oppression of the Chinese people by imperialism largely relies on the backward feudal relationships in the countryside. The destruction of the feudal system is a fatal blow to imperialist rule in China..



Mao Zedong pointed out clearly when he attended a meeting in Changsha, Hunan Province, to discuss and formulate the plan for the autumn harvest uprising: The purpose of the autumn harvest uprising was to thoroughly implement the land reform and solve the peasants' land problems with guns. After the situation of "armed rural areas by workers and peasants" was created in the Jinggang Mountains, land reform became a major part of the work in the areas. When the Red Army first arrived at the Jinggang Mountains, Mao Zedong primarily led the Red Army to mobilize the peasant masses, beat up the local tyrants, distributed their wealth, abolished debts and voided contracts, in preparation for land distribution. By May 20, 1928, when Mao Zedong chaired the first representative meeting of the Party at the Hunan-Jiangxi border, he proposed the task of vigorously carrying out land reform. After the conference, under the leadership of the Chinese Communist Party's special committee and the border workers' and peasants' government, land reform committees were universally established at the county, district, and township levels, and policies for land distribution per capita at the township level were formulated. Thus, the land reform in the revolutionary bases of the Jinggang Mountains was vigorously carried out.

The land reform liberated the productivity of the countryside, greatly stimulated the enthusiasm for revolution and production among the vast number of peasants. It not only provided a source for the replenishment of the Red Army but also created material conditions for supporting the war of the Red Army, further strengthening and developing the situation of armed separations in rural areas at the Hunan-Jiangxi border.

The rural revolutionary base is the basic position of "armed separation of workers and peasants," it is the foothold and starting point for the victorious development of the revolution and the implementation of land reform. The fundamental problem of the revolution is the problem of power. The Party, in accordance with the national conditions of China, shifted the emphasis of its work from the urban areas to the rural areas and amassed and developed its forces there. The issues of opening up and establishing peasant revolutionary bases are essentially ones of seizing power, first in the countryside and then in the cities, first seizing local power and then seizing national power.

Mao Zedong attached great importance to the construction of revolutionary bases. He believed that such consolidations and developments of Red power, not only are conducive to land reform and armed struggle, but they can also create a group of talents for our Party. Mao Zedong was strongly opposed to the "fluid guerrilla warfare" that discarded the revolutionary bases. In his letter criticizing Lin Biao's wrongful views, he pointed out: Judging by the fact that in a period when the revolutionary climax is still far away, doing such hard work of establishing power seems to be in vain, and they prefer to use the relatively convenient method of fluid guerilla warfare to expand political influence, waiting until the work of mobilizing the masses nationwide is done well, or has reached a certain level, and then start a nationwide armed uprising. 

In conclusion, the thought of "armed separation of workers and peasants" articulated by Mao Zedong calls for under the leadership of the proletariat, primarily using armed struggle, taking land reform as the basic content, using the revolutionary base areas as strategic positions, and starting from this point, to achieve the fundamental goal of seizing national power. The armed struggle, land reform, and base area construction guided by the thought of the "armed separation of workers and peasants" are organically integrated and interconnected.



Without the armed struggle under the leadership of the proletariat, it is impossible to carry out effective land revolution, nor can we establish and develop revolutionary bases; without carrying out the land revolution, we cannot fully mobilize the vast peasants, and the armed struggle cannot obtain the support of millions of masses, and the base cannot be consolidated and developed; without the revolutionary base, the armed struggle will lose its foothold and fall into failure, and the achievements of the land revolution cannot be maintained. The thought of "The worker-peasant armed secession" incorporates these three inseparable aspects, including the basic content of Chinese democratic revolution, and also reflects the main form and fundamental purpose of Chinese democratic revolution. It is an extremely correct revolutionary thought guiding China's revolution to continue forward after the failure of the Great Revolution.

Mao Zedong's discussion on the conditions for the existence of the Red regime, the proposition of the concept of "worker-peasant armed secession", and the specific explanation of secession policy, have important theoretical and practical guiding significance. Mao Zedong scientifically answered the question "How long can the red flag be fought" raised in the base area; he succinctly summarized the main ways and methods of the party to lead the revolutionary struggle and accumulate and develop revolutionary forces at the time - relying on workers and peasants (mainly peasants), through armed struggle, to establish and develop rural revolutionary bases, as a formula. This is not only a summary of the results of the party's exploration of revolutionary roads in the previous stage but also laid the foundation for the later complete formation of the "encirclement of the city by the countryside" theory; the specific policy provisions provided reference for the development and consolidation of other revolutionary bases. In April 1929, Mao Zedong drafted a letter to the center for the Red Fourth Army's front committee, proposing a plan to win the whole of Jiangxi through quadrilateral secession. The deployment is: under the revolutionary forces in northern, western, southern, and eastern Jiangxi has "created a situation of encircling Nanchang", "decide in the early stages of the Kuomintang's melee, with more than 20 counties in western Fujian and southern Jiangxi as the scope, and use guerrilla tactics to mobilize the masses, so that the masses openly secession, deeply into the land revolution, establish the government of the workers and peasants, from this secession and Hunan Jiangxi border secession connection, form a strong force, as the foundation for forward", and then strive for the whole Jiangxi, while including west Fujian, west Zhejiang, time for a year. In September, the first representative meeting of the Communist Party of Western Fujian made a plan for the future of "the worker-peasant armed secession" in Western Fujian. Among them, for the "party and government and mass development methods", the following three points have been strongly put forward: First, "establish a central work area", "as the base for the development of the whole Western Fujian", "a county should also have a central work area, as a county development's base" Second, eliminate the gap between the red areas, so that they "mutually belong" . Third, "rely on the existing work place like a wave forward, do not be unrelated to the advance". The above two documents specifically plan how to implement the "worker-peasant armed secession" in one region and one province. The principles put forward by the two documents that need to be noted, such as establishing a solid "central area" as a base for continuing to advance, the development of the base must "rely on" the existing areas and gradually connect the neighboring areas of secession, and the provisions on the content of the struggle in the secession area, are all a summary of practical struggle experience and enrich the thought of "worker-peasant armed secession".



The worker-peasant armed secession is an important content of the road to encircling the cities from the countryside, but its implementation does not mean the complete formation of the revolutionary road to encircling the cities from the countryside. Because there are two problems to be solved: First, where should the focus of the party's work be? Is it to promote the national revolutionary climax and seize the national power with the city struggle as the main? Or is it to take the rural worker-peasant armed secession as the main and take the road of encircling the cities from the countryside? Second, how should the role of the rural base in seizing the national power be estimated, is it considered as a decisive factor, or just as an auxiliary factor? Without resolving these two problems, the persistence and development of the new road are impossible.



The development of the revolutionary situation promoted the progressive understanding of the Chinese revolutionary path by the Chinese Communists, represented by Mao Zedong. The Sixth National Congress of the Party affirmed Mao Zedong's practice of establishing bases. Later, in September 1929, Zhou Enlai, on behalf of the Central Committee, issued an instruction letter to the Red Fourth Army Forward Committee, hereafter referred to as the "September Letter." The letter affirmed Mao Zedong’s notion of the "armed segregation of workers and farmers." It pointed out, "First there was the Red Army, then urban political power. This is a characteristic of the Chinese revolution and a product of China's economic foundation." 

The letter supported Mao Zedong's strategy for Red Army operations, strengthening the construction of the Red Army, correcting non-proletarian thinking within the party, and advocating for establishing a strong people's army under the leadership of the Communist Party. In accordance with the spirit of the "September Letter" from the Party Central Committee, the Red Fourth Army convened the Gutian Conference in Shanghang, Fujian in December 1929, outlining a clear direction for army and party construction. During the process of moving to bases in southern Jiangxi and western Fujian, situations and experiences from other rural bases, such as those led by Fang Zhimin in the Min Zhe Gan region and He Long in the Western Hunan-Hubei region, were continuously conveyed to the Red Fourth Army. These experiences greatly broadened Mao Zedong's Vision, and made a new leap in his understanding of the Chinese revolutionary path, further strengthening his view that the Chinese revolution must take the path of encircling the city from the countryside. 

However, at that time, there was a wrong tendency in the party to dogmatize Marxism-Leninism and sanctify the instructions of the Communist International. They lacked an understanding of China's revolutionary path of encircling cities from the countryside. For a while, some leaders of the Communist International and the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China had a rather pessimistic mood about the revolutionary situation at that time, which was reflected in the Central Committee's February letter. They believe that the climax of the revolution would not come, and the Red Army should be divided into small groups, scattered among the rural areas, with Zhu De and Mao Zedong leaving the troops and hiding the greater goals. 

This pessimistic thinking also had an impact on the Red Fourth Army. Lin Biao, who was the commander of the column at the time, was one of the representatives. His mood was quite apparent at the Ruijin Conference on May 18, 1929. Lin Biao believed that the revolutionary situation was "not optimistic," the future was "very vague," and the current work of establishing Red political power in the countryside, and carrying out the land revolution in-depth, was "in vain". He proposed to replace the establishment of revolutionary bases with a "mobile guerrilla" campaign to influence the masses. When the mobilization of the masses reached a certain level, a national armed uprising would occur, and revolution would be victorious. This shows that there was still a lack of correct understanding of the strategic development situation and path to victory of the Chinese revolution within the Party and the Army. 

To answer these concerns, Mao Zedong wrote a long letter to Lin Biao in January 1930, which is the article "A Single Spark Can Start a Prairie Fire." The article systematically expounds the strategic significance of establishing rural bases for the Chinese revolution. The main content and significance of the article are as follows: 

It clearly states that, according to China's national conditions, the path of launching a national armed uprising with the city as the center is not suitable for China, and China must find its own path. At the beginning of the article, Mao Zedong states that, "Regarding the estimation of the current situation and the accompanying questions of our actions, there is still a lack of correct understanding among some comrades in our party." They do not believe that the climax of the revolution can come quickly and lack the profound idea of establishing Red Power in guerilla zones to promote the arrival of the national revolution. They seem to think that it is futile to do the arduous task of establishing political power during the period when the critical point of the revolution is still far away, and they hope to use relatively easy mobile guerilla tactics to expand political influence. When the work of winning over the masses throughout the country is done, or reaches a certain point, a national armed uprising can then be launched. At that time, the power of the Red Army will be added to achieve a major revolution on a national scale.

The theory of first winning over the masses and then establishing political power, which involves all places nationwide, is not suitable for the actual situation of the Chinese revolution.



"Mao Zedong analyzed the origins of this theory, mainly because he did not clearly understand China's national conditions, and did not consider issues from the perspective of China's national conditions. Further, he argued the necessity to establish and develop revolutionary bases and red power, and proposed a rural-focused ideology. Mao Zedong analyzed China as a semi-colonial and semi-feudal country struggle over by various imperialist countries, and pointed out that this created a scenario of constant warfare among China's ruling classes. This, in turn, created opportunities to establish revolutionary bases in the vast rural areas, enabling the Red Army and revolutionary power to exist and grow for extended periods. Mao Zedong emphasized the need and significance of establishing bases and systematically building power, implementing thorough land reform, and expanding the armed forces of workers and peasants. He argued that this last aspect represented the highest form of peasant struggle in semi-colonial China under the leadership of the proletariat, and an inevitable development of the peasant struggle in semi-colonial China; and unequivocally represents the most important factor promoting the climax of the nationwide revolution. Only in this way can the faith of the masses be established in the revolution, as seen in the Soviet Union. Only in this manner can there be tremendous difficulties for the ruling classes, shake their foundations, and promote their decomposition. This is also necessary to truly create the Red Army, becoming the main tool for the future grand revolution. In summary, it is essential to promote the climax of the revolution. This is because peasants represent over 80% of the national population and are the main force in China's revolution. The Chinese proletariat, aiming to achieve an anti-imperialist and anti-feudalism mission, need to solve the central issue of democratic revolution, which is the peasants' land issue. They must rely on peasants, organize the peasants, and elevate peasants' struggle to the highest form of violent seizure of power. The revolutionary war led by the Chinese proletariat is effectively a war with peasants as the main body. Mao Zedong's proposition of 'the most important factor' and the four 'must do such' has clarifies the relationship between the armed establishment of workers and peasants and the success of the national revolution. As Zhou Enlai mentioned in his research on 'the sixth', Mao Zedong's ideas advocate for focusing on rural areas and require the party to shift their focus from the cities to the countryside, becoming a new starting point for the grand revolution. This is followed by analyses of a series of contradictions in China at the time, demonstrating that the trend of 'A Single Spark Can Start a Prairie Fire' during the Chinese revolution is inevitable.

Mao Zedong pointed out that when evaluating the political situation in China, there's a need to analyze in view of the comprehensive, interconnected development. Things must be looked at their essence, not to be confused by the phenomena. He analyzed the subjective forces and the anti-revolutionary forces of the Chinese revolution specifically, stating that in contemporary China, while the subjective forces of the revolution may be weaker, the anti-revolutionary forces based on China’s feeble socio-economic organization are also relatively weak. Therefore, the climax of China's revolution will undoubtedly be faster than that in Western Europe. And we must look at its essence when viewing things. As long as a detailed inspection of the various contradictions leading to the climax of the Chinese revolution and their forward development is made, one will understand that the arrival of the climax of the Chinese revolution is inevitable and will not be confused by surface phenomena. Mao Zedong critically analyzed the contradictions between the people and imperialism and feudalism after the failure of the revolution in 1927, which none of those were resolved, and the contradictions among rulers could not be reconciled. The vast majority of workers, peasants, petty bourgeoisie, and student youths yearned for revolution, including mutiny from soldiers in the reactionary army of the Kuomintang. China was filled with kindling on a national scale, which would soon ignite a raging fire. The trend of 'A Single Spark Can Start a Prairie Fire' is unstoppable. The time from 'A Single Spark Can Start a Prairie Fire' is undoubtedly near. Mao Zedong criticized the pessimistic outlook of the Red Army and the Party, including a pessimistic letter from the Central Committee in February, as they failed to grasp the essence of the political situation. At the same time, he pointed out that Marxists are not fortunetellers. Future development and changes should only provide a broad direction. It should never mechanically dictate the time and day."



But the approaching climax of the Chinese revolution is indeed like standing at the summit of a mountain, looking far into the east to see the radiant and burgeoning dawn. It's not hard to see that Mao Zedong in "A Single Spark Can Start a Prairie Fire," for the characteristics of Chinese society, the characteristics of the Chinese revolution and its laws, has made a new leap in understanding. He not only further answered the possibility of the existence and development of the Chinese Red Regime but also revealed the necessity of the existence and development of the Chinese Red Regime. He proposed from both positive and negative aspects that when the Chinese revolution was defeated by powerful enemies in the city and could not win the national revolution with the city as the center, the focus of party work must be on the countryside rather than the city, marking the beginning of Mao Zedong's theory of rural encirclement of cities.

Secondly, a comprehensive exposition of the theory of rural encapsulation of cities. In May 1930, Mao Zedong's article "Against Bookism" further answered the Marxist debate on the Chinese revolution's path within the Party from an elevated ideological line. He exposed and criticized the mistakes of the "left" doctrinaires who dogmatized and sacralized the road of urban armed uprising in the October Revolution in Russia and opposed this with the rural road encircling the cities. He explicitly put forward the theoretical basis for the road around the city. The article pointed out: "The victory of the Chinese revolutionary struggle depends on the Chinese comrades' understanding of the Chinese situation," "Without investigation, there is no right to speak." He criticized the bad style of theory being divorced from practice and "blind talking" within the party.

After initially confirming that the focus of party work is on rural areas, establishing rural revolutionary bases, and conducting thorough land reforms within rural revolutionary bases, Mao Zedong summarized his experience in party building, state-building, and army building and proposed a series of new policies and guidelines. This constitutes the main content of the comprehensive theory of rural encirclement of cities. In January 1935, the Zunyi Conference confirmed Mao Zedong's correct leadership, opening up a new situation for the Chinese revolution. In December 1936, Mao Zedong wrote "Problems of Strategy in China's Revolutionary War," which comprehensively discussed the characteristics of China's revolutionary war, explained the uneven law of political and economic development in semi-colonial China, and concluded that China's revolutionary war is possible to develop and win. It determined a whole set of military strategies and tactics for rural areas to surround the cities, such as active defense, anti-encirclement preparations, strategic retreat, strategic counterattack, concentration of forces, mobile warfare, fast warfare, annihilation warfare, etc. Mao Zedong, in his book, reiterated the objective and subjective conditions for the existence and development of China's rural revolutionary bases from a new perspective: "China is a large country — 'the East is not bright and the West is bright, it is dark in the South and there is the North,' there is no shortage of room for maneuver," which is an important geographical condition. The implementation of land reform and equality between officers and soldiers can gain farmers' support and the support of the Red Army, which is an important basis for popular support. The Communist Party adopted correct strategic tactics, which is a fundamental guarantee for exerting subjective initiative and achieving revolutionary victory. Mao Zedong's discussion also constitutes an important part of the theory of rural encirclement of cities in China. In July 1937, Mao Zedong wrote "On Practice," and in August he completed "On Contradiction" which clarified the dependency of theory on practice from the epistemological height, and the correct methods of analyzing and solving problems, deeply exposing the ideological roots of dogmatism and the serious harm it does to the revolutionary cause, laying a philosophical foundation for the theory of rural encirclement of cities. By this point, Mao Zedong's systematic and complete explanation of the theory of rural encirclement of cities marked the complete formation of the theory of rural encirclement of cities.

After the outbreak of the Anti-Japanese War, during the Anti-Japanese War and the Liberation War, Mao Zedong's theory of the revolutionary road of rural encirclement of cities has greatly developed.



In response to the new situation of the Anti-Japanese War, in late August 1937, the LuoChuan Conference of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China correctly formulated the principles of independent guerrilla warfare in the mountains, deciding to vigorously organize guerrilla warfare behind enemy lines, mobilize the masses, and widely establish rural anti-Japanese bases behind enemy lines. The Central Committee of the Party, represented by Mao Zedong, resisted the tendency of Wang Ming to shift the focus of the party's work back to cities and other right-wing errors, consciously placing the party's focus in the vast rural areas based on the actual situation of the Anti-Japanese War. 

In May 1938, Mao Zedong emphasized the issue of establishing the base area of ​​anti-Japanese guerrilla warfare in "Strategic Issues of Anti-Japanese Guerrilla Warfare". He pointed out the necessity and importance of setting up bases for anti-Japanese guerrilla warfare: due to the long and brutal nature of the Anti-Japanese War, it would be impossible to maintain guerrilla warfare behind enemy lines without a base. The base of guerrilla warfare is the strategic base for fulfilling its strategic mission, achieving the goals of preserving and developing itself, and eliminating and driving out the enemy. Without such a strategic base, the execution of all strategic tasks and the realization of the war goals would lose their foundation. Therefore, completely overcoming banditry from the minds of guerrilla warfare leaders is a prerequisite for establishing the policy of building base areas. He proposed that temporary bases should be established in mountainous, flat, and river port areas where enemy rule is weak, and these bases could become more stable over time. 

In October of the same year, Mao Zedong specifically analyzed the conditions of the trinity in China in "New Stage": First, the semi-colonial cities could not completely rule the countryside; second, China is a large country with a wide area for guerrilla activities; third, there are people's armies and crowds led by the Communist Party. These three conditions, with the wide and protracted war that we organized and persisted, can resist the enemy occupying the city, with a crisscross war that will surround and isolate the city, grow our strength gradually from long-term warfare, change the enemy's situation, and then coordinate with changes in the world to drive the enemy out and restore the city. Mao Zedong also pointed out that due to these three conditions, the countryside will definitely defeat the city.

China's armed struggle must follow the path of rural areas surrounding cities, which is a characteristic of the Chinese revolution and is determined by China's economic base. China's economic base is different from that of capitalist countries. The economic base of capitalist countries is dominated by the capitalist mode of production, and the center of the economic base is in the cities; China's economic base is mainly the backward feudal mode of production scattered in the countryside. After the failure of the Great Revolution, due to the more brutal rule of the new warlords of the Kuomintang, the revolutionary forces in the cities were repeatedly severely damaged. Therefore, the weak revolutionary forces in the city cannot make armed uprisings and final battles with the enemy who has an absolute advantage. The main target of the proletarian revolution in capitalist countries is the bourgeoisie concentrated in the cities, and the main driving force of the revolution is the working class concentrated in the cities; one of the main targets of the Chinese revolution is the feudal landlord class scattered in the countryside, and the main driving force of the revolution is the peasantry under the leadership of the working class. This has determined that China's revolution is first composed of the Red Army in rural areas, and later the city authority. Therefore, Mao Zedong made a clearer summary of the issue of the Chinese revolution in "War and Strategy Issues" in November 1938. He pointed out: In capitalist countries, the proletarian party can win over the masses through a long period of legal struggle. When the time comes for uprising and war, they firstly occupy the big cities and then attack the countryside. China is different in this regard.



The characteristics of China are: it is not an independent democratic country, but a semi-colonial and semi-feudal country; it does not have a democratic system internally and is oppressed by the feudal system; it lacks national independence externally and is oppressed by imperialism. Therefore, there is no parliament to exploit, and there is no legal right for workers to organize strikes. Here, the task of the Communist Party is essentially not to enter into an uprising and war through a long-term legal struggle, nor to take the cities before taking the villages, but to go the opposite way. In December 1939, Mao Zedong continued to elucidate the issue of China's revolutionary road in "The Chinese Revolution and the Chinese Communist Party". He pointed out: the ranks of the Chinese revolution must prepare, accumulate and temper their strengths and avoid decisive battles with powerful enemies when their strength is insufficient, "it is necessary to transform the backward rural areas into advanced and solid bases, and create great revolutionary positions militarily, politically, economically, and culturally to oppose the vicious enemies who use cities to attack rural areas, and gradually strive for complete revolutionary victory in prolonged battles." He also pointed out: "Due to the uneven development of China's economy (not a unified capitalist economy), the vastness of China's land (there is room for the revolution to maneuver), the lack of unity within the anti-revolutionary camps in China and various contradictions, and because the main force of the Chinese revolution, the peasantry, is led by the Communist Party, the proletariat's political party, this has resulted in prospects of initial success in rural areas for the Chinese revolution on the one hand, and on the other hand, it results in the uneven development of the revolution, which brings long-term and arduous tasks to achieve complete revolutionary victory. It can therefore be understood that the prolonged revolutionary struggle taking place in these revolutionary bases consists primarily of guerrilla warfare led by the Chinese Communist Party among the peasants. Therefore, neglecting the standpoint of establishing rural areas as revolutionary bases, the standpoint of hard work among the peasants, and the standpoint of guerrilla warfare are all incorrect." However, emphasizing the work in rural areas does not mean that the work in cities and other rural areas under enemy control can be abandoned. On the contrary, without work in cities and other rural areas, the rural bases would be isolated and the revolution would fail. Furthermore, the ultimate goal of the revolution is to seize the cities, which are the main bases of the enemy, and without sufficient work in the cities, this goal cannot be achieved. These arguments enrich Mao Zedong's theory of the countryside surrounding the city. The path of armed seizure of power by surrounding the city with the countryside, created by the Chinese Communists, represented by Mao Zedong, had been widely spread across many parts of the country by the time of the Anti-Japanese War, and it became the only correct path towards final victory in the Anti-Japanese War. The theory of the countryside surrounding the city and armed seizure of power also received a comprehensive explanation. Its main content is: firstly, China's national conditions determine that China's revolution must take the path of the countryside surrounding the city and armed seizure of power. Mao pointed out that the central task and highest form of the revolution is the armed seizure of power and resolution of issues through war, which is universally correct as a principle of Marxist-Leninist revolution. In capitalist countries, there is no internal feudal system, but a bourgeois democratic system; there is no foreign national oppression, but oppression of other nations by their own. Based on these characteristics, the task of the proletariat's political parties in capitalist countries is to educate workers through long-term legal struggles, breed strength, and prepare to finally overthrow capitalism. However, China is not an independent democratic country but a semi-colonial and semi-feudal country; it is oppressed by imperialism internally and does not have a democratic system. There is no parliament to exploit, and there is no legal right for workers to organize strikes.



Therefore, in China, the primary form of struggle is war, and the principal form of organization is the army. The task of the Communist Party is not essentially to enter insurrection and war through prolonged legal struggle, nor is it to take the cities before the countryside but to take the opposite path. The focus must be on the rural areas, accumulating and developing strength in the vast rural regions where enemy rule is weak, and preparing to seize power through armed struggle in the end.

Secondly, to follow the path of encircling the cities from the countryside and seize power with armed forces, we must establish solid rural bases. Mao Zedong pointed out that if the revolutionary forces are unwilling to compromise with imperialism and its running dogs, and instead, insist on struggling hard; if they want to accumulate and hone their strength and avoid decisive battles with powerful enemies when they are not strong enough, they must turn the backward rural areas into advanced solid bases—great revolutionary positions in military, political, economic, and cultural aspects—to fight against the brutal enemy who uses cities to attack rural areas and gradually achieve complete revolutionary victory in long-term battles.

Thirdly, the relationship between rural struggle and urban struggle must be handled correctly. Mao Zedong pointed out that focusing on the rural struggle does not mean ignoring the urban struggle, nor does it mean rejecting other forms of struggle beyond armed struggle. Without the coordination of various forms of struggle beyond armed struggle, the armed struggle cannot succeed. Similarly, without city work and other works, the rural base would be isolated, and the revolution would fail. The relationship between rural struggle and urban struggle is that the former is primary, and the latter is secondary. The city's struggle should assist the rural struggle. The party's city struggle should be defensive, making maximum use of legal means to organize the masses and carry out the struggle. The guideline for the party's work in the white area is "to hide excellence, dwell in the long-term, accumulate strength, and wait for the right opportunity."

In the later stage of the Liberation War, the People's War of Liberation entered the stage of strategic decisive battle. According to Mao Zedong's concept of encircling the cities from the countryside and finally seizing the cities, the Chinese People's Liberation Army gradually completed the task of encircling and seizing the cities in blocks and fragments all over the country. In practice, according to Mao Zedong's idea, first seize the small cities occupied by the enemy, then the medium cities occupied by the enemy, and finally the big cities occupied by the enemy. In the seizure of cities, the Communist Party and the People's Liberation Army also created two ways in Tianjin and Beiping, namely, armed seizure and peaceful liberation. Mao Zedong's great strategic thinking and revolutionary practice during the Liberation War further enriched and developed the idea of encircling the cities from the countryside and finally seizing the cities.

Represented by Mao Zedong, the Chinese Communists, starting from the actual conditions of China as a semi-colonial and semi-feudal society, pragmatically broke the shackles of dogmatism. They creatively formed a relatively complete theory about agricultural and peasant armed separatism, the establishment of red power, the formation of the Party and the army in rural areas, the implementation of land revolution and the strategy and tactics to be adopted, on the basis of theory and practice. This theory revealed the objective law of the development of China's revolution, opened up a new path to seize power by arms, ensured the victory of China's New Democratic Revolution, and embodied the first historical leap in the integration of Marxism-Leninism with Chinese revolutionary practice during the period of Democratic Revolution. The path of encircling the cities from the countryside and seizing national power by armed forces is a path never mentioned in the classic works of Marx, Engels, Lenin, and others, and it is also a new path in the history of the proletarian revolution.



It is a glorious exemplification of the unique combination of the basic principles of Marxism-Leninism, such as the proletarian violent revolution, state power, alliance of workers and peasants, and the uneven political and economic development of imperialist states, with the specific practice of the Chinese revolution. It is another great feat in the proletarian revolutionary movement following the October Revolution in Russia. The theory of rural areas surrounding the cities and armed seizures of national power occupies an extremely significant position in the history of Mao Zedong's thought development.



After the failure of the Great Revolution in 1927, the focus of the work of the Communist Party of China shifted from cities to rural areas, and the armed separatism of the base areas began. Represented by Mao Zedong, the Communists of China began their arduous practice and theoretical analysis of base area construction after they opened up the first revolutionary base in Jinggangshan, putting forward a series of unique insights in the construction of political power, economy, and culture. They formed a relatively correct theory of base area construction.

Thoughts on the Construction of Political Power

After the Autumn Harvest Uprising troops arrived in the Jinggangshan area, they began the work of constructing political power. On November 28th, 1927, the Tea Ling County Worker-Peasant-Soldier Government was established, with Tan Zhenlin as the chairman. The Sui Dynasty County Worker-Peasant-Soldier Government was established in January 1928. In February, the Ninggang County Worker-Peasant-Soldier Government was established. Subsequently, the worker-peasant-soldier governments in Yongxin and Lianhua counties were also established in succession. People's political power was established in the townships of all counties. In May, on the basis of the various Worker-Peasant-Soldier Governments, the Xianggan Border Worker-Peasant-Soldier Soviet government was established. On November 25th, Mao Zedong concentrated collective wisdom and summarized the experience of building political power over the past year in a report to the CCP Central Committee titled "The Struggle in Jinggangshan," where he elucidated the following basic ideas:



Mao Zedong pointed out: the political power of the people in all levels of counties, districts and towns is organized universally, but it is only nominal. Many places do not hold workers, peasants, and soldiers' congresses. District and county levels, and especially the executive committees of the government, are all elected in a mass meeting manner. A hastily convened mass meeting cannot discuss problems and cannot give the masses political training. On the other hand, it is most convenient for opportunists to manipulate. Although some places have convened representative meetings, after the elections, all powers are concentrated in the committee, and the representative meeting is not mentioned again. He said the reason for this is the lack of propaganda and education about this new political system. Feudal dictatorship deeply ingrained in the minds of the masses and even ordinary party members has not been completely eradicated. When encountering problems, they seek convenience and dislike cumbersome democracy.




To this end, Mao Zedong proposed that the democratic system must be implemented, and a detailed organizational law for representatives at all levels should be formulated. This is the earliest idea of Mao Zedong to implement the people's congress system.

Mao Zedong pointed out that the democracy of the working people's dictatorship, "is the people's own power, it relies directly on the people, its relationship with the people must be kept highly engaged", and "its power also relies entirely on the people". At that time, the system of democratic centralism was not only in the Representative Assembly, but also in the Executive Committee, that is, "it was not used to it in government work". Mao Zedong emphasized: "The system of democratic centralism must show its effect in the revolutionary struggle so that the masses understand that it is the most able to mobilize the power of the masses and is most conducive to the struggle. Only then can it be truly and widely applied to mass organizations." He summed up the experience of the revolutionary base areas in carrying out the democratic centralist system over the past few years, especially the full development of people's democracy experience, affirmed the effective methods of developing people's democracy in the base areas over the years. He emphasized the importance of adhering to the principle of democratic centralism in the construction of base area political power.

In the construction of political power in Jinggangshan area, the prestige of the Communist Party of China is relatively high, and the functions of the government are not well played, which has resulted in the phenomenon of party replacing government; at the same time, there are no organizations of the Communist Party in the political organs of some places. To overcome these two phenomena, Mao Zedong pointed out: "In the future, the party should undertake the task of leading the government; the party's claims and methods, except for propaganda, must be implemented through government organizations." The All-China Soviet of Workers and Peasants' Deputies, held in Ruijin, Jiangxi Province in November 1931, established a Workers' and Peasants' Democratic Regime - the Provisional Central Government of the Republic of China, elected a Central Executive Committee and the People's Commissariat with Mao Zedong as Chairman and passed the first constitution in the history of revolutionary base areas—The Outline of Constitution of the Republic of China. The Constitution stipulates: "All Soviet power belongs to the workers, peasants, Red Army soldiers and all working people", the constitution also does not recognize all political and economic privileges of imperialism in China, abolition of all unequal treaties. All properties of imperialism in China are "owned by the state". The National Soviet of Workers and Peasants is the highest centralized authority of Soviet power. During the closing of the conference, the Esczecutive Committee of the Soviet Central is the supreme authority. The Executive Committee organizes the People's Commissariat to handle daily affairs. In January 1934, the Second National Delegates Congress of the Chinese Soviet was held in Jiangxi province. Mao Zedong made a report to the congress on "Care for the Masses' Life, Concentrate on the Work Method" and passed "The Outline of the Constitution of the Republic of China", reelected the Executive Committee of the Soviet Government of China. Mao Zedong still served as chairman. Mao Zedong, during his chairmanship of the government, emphasized the following thoughts on the construction of political power:
First, the idea of combining democracy and dictatorship.

Mao Zedong pointed out that the broadest democracy of the Soviets is firstly manifested in its elections. The Soviets extended full voting and candidacy rights to all formerly exploited and oppressed nationalities, establishing equal rights for women and men. Secondly, Soviet democracy is seen in urban and rural representative assemblies: the urban and rural assembly system is the foundation of the Soviets, serving as a mechanism to closely connect the Soviets with the general public. Moreover, Soviet democracy offers all revolutionary public complete freedom to assemble, associate, express, and publish, as well as to strike, and encourages extensive public supervision and criticism of their work. Mao particularly emphasized the role of the People's Congress, enabling the people to fully exercise their power as masters of their own homes. In general, he believed that the Soviet system embodies a very broad revolutionary democracy for the general public, but within this democracy, the vast majority of its power consists of millions of proletarian believers who are conscious of their needs. The Soviets used this power to establish their dictatorship, organize revolutionary wars, organize Soviet courts, launch fierce attacks on class enemies from all sides, and the Soviet courts played a significant role in cracking down on counter-revolutionary activities within the Soviet territory.

Secondly, the thought of caring about the public's life. Mao Zedong pointed out that our current central task is to mobilize the broad masses to participate in revolutionary struggle, to overthrow imperialism and the Kuomintang with revolutionary warfare, to extend the revolution nationwide, and to oust imperialism from China. Therefore, it is crucial to gain the endorsement and support of the majority of the public. He said: to win over the public's endorsement? To get the public to lend their full strength to the front lines? In that case, we must be with the people, we need to arouse the initiative of the people, we need to care about the people's concerns and needs; we need to genuinely seek benefits for the people and solve people's production and life issues: the issue of salt, rice, housing, clothing, bringing up children, etc., to solve all the problems of the people. If we do so, the broad mass will surely endorse us, treat the revolution as their life and take the revolution as their most glorious flag. Mao Zedong also said: what is the real copper wall and iron bulwark? It is the masses, millions of people wholeheartedly endorsing the revolution. This real copper wall and iron bulwark, no force can ever break through, absolutely impervious. The counterrevolutionaries cannot break us, but we must break the counter-revolutionaries. Mao Zedong confidently stated: unite millions of masses around the revolutionary government, develop our revolutionary war, and we can eliminate all counter-revolutions, we can take over all of China.

Thirdly, the thought of paying attention to work methods. Mao Zedong pointed out that we are the leaders and organizers of the revolutionary war, and we are also the leaders and organizers of the public life. Here the issue of working methods is seriously posed to us. Therefore, "not only do we have to propose tasks, but we have to solve the problem of methods to accomplish tasks". "Without solving the method problem, it’s just empty talk. Without paying attention to the leadership of expanding the Red Army, and without a scrupulous method of expanding the Red Army, even if you chant the expansion of the Red Army a thousand times, the result will still be unsuccessful". Mao Zedong also proposed a method of work where the advanced lead the latecomers. He said: "In all the places we lead, there is undoubtedly a good number of active cadres, and many good working comrades have emerged from the masses..."



These comrades bear a responsibility, that is, they should help those places where work is weak and assist those who are still not good at their jobs. "We must use practical methods to improve our work. Advanced places should move further ahead, and backward places should catch up with advanced ones. Only in this way can we crush the enemy's "siege" and overthrow the rule of imperialism and the Kuomintang throughout the country.



Economic construction is the main task of building revolutionary bases. Mao Zedong, starting from the actual situation of production conditions, production level, and economic structure of rural revolutionary bases, and considering the needs of the revolutionary war, summarized the experience of economic construction in revolutionary bases while building the political power, and put forward some valuable thoughts on the economic construction of revolutionary bases. In October 1928, the second representative conference of the Party in the Hunan-Jiangxi border area adopted the resolution drafted by Mao Zedong. The first part of the resolution is "Why can the Red Political Power in China Exist?", which brought up the experience issue of revolutionary bases under the siege of white forces "worth the attention of every party member". At that time, the shortage of daily necessities and cash in the revolutionary base "has become a big problem". He emphasized: "If the border area party does not have a suitable method for economic problems and the enemy's power is still stable for a relatively long period, separatism will encounter great difficulties. The considerable solution to this economic problem is really worth the attention of every party member." During his leadership of the work of the Interim Central Government of the Chinese Soviet Republic, Mao Zedong led the economic construction of the central base, summarized the experience of economic construction work, and published important works such as "We Must Pay Attention to Economic Work" and "Our Economic Policy", elaborating on the thoughts on the economic construction of revolutionary bases.

First, he expounded on the importance of economic construction in revolutionary bases and criticized the wrong views on economic construction. Mao Zedong pointed out: “The intense development of the revolutionary war requires us to mobilize the masses to immediately carry out economic movements on the economic front and undertake necessary and possible economic construction projects. Why? All our work now should be for the victory of the revolutionary war, first of all for the complete victory of the war to smash the enemy's fifth 'siege'; for the struggle for material conditions to guarantee the supply and supply of the Red Army; for improving the lives of the masses, thereby further arousing the enthusiasm of the masses to participate in the revolutionary war; for organizing the vast masses of people on the economic front and educating them to gain new mass strength for the war; for consolidating the alliance of workers and peasants from economic construction, to strengthen the dictatorship of the proletariat and peasants, to strengthen the leadership of the proletariat. For all this, it is necessary to carry out construction work in the economic field.” For this reason, Mao Zedong criticized two kinds of wrong views on economic construction: one view "believes that economic construction should not be carried out in the environment of the revolutionary war, which is extremely wrong". He pointed out that if they do not understand, if they do not carry out economic construction, the material conditions of the revolutionary war cannot be guaranteed, the people will feel fatigue in the protracted war, it will not break the enemy's economic blockade of our base, the people's life will not improve, and thus, the revolutionary war cannot proceed smoothly, and the alliance between workers and peasants will be affected. Another viewpoint “believes that economic construction has become the center of all tasks at the moment, neglecting the revolutionary war and undertaking economic construction away from the revolutionary war, which is also wrong.” Mao Zedong pointed out: “At the current stage, economic construction must revolve around the central task of the revolutionary war. The revolutionary war is the central task at present, and economic construction is for it, revolves around it, and is subordinate to it." "Only after the end of the civil war can it be said, and it should be said, that economic construction is the center of all tasks." Mao Zedong clearly explained the dialectical relationship between economic construction and revolutionary war here.



Secondly, it correctly stipulates the economic policy and principles of the revolutionary base. After 1931, the labor and taxation policies implemented by the "left" adventurists represented by Wang Ming caused great damage to the industry and commerce within the rural revolutionary base, causing serious difficulties for military and civilian supplies. This aroused doubt and dissatisfaction among many party members. In 1933, Zhang Wentian, Chen Yun and others published articles criticizing this "leftist" mistake. They pointed out that if the current policy of "eating up capital first" is adopted, the Soviet economy will inevitably wither, workers will become unemployed, and the lives of workers will deteriorate. This policy essentially represents the small bourgeoisie consciousness of a part of backward workers and the narrow trade unionist interests of some workers. In January 1934, Mao Zedong made a report at the Second National Delegates of Workers and Peasants, and further pointed out when discussing the economic policy of the rural revolutionary base: "Our current state-owned economy consists of state-owned enterprises, cooperative enterprises, and private enterprises." " We not only do not stop but also encourage and reward private economy as long as it does not exceed the scope of government law. Because the development of private economy at present is needed for the interests of the state and the people. Undoubtedly, the private economy is currently absolutely dominant and will remain dominant for a considerable period of time." "The development of state-owned economy as much as possible and the large-scale development of cooperative economy should be carried out simultaneously with the encouragement of private economy." " When the cooperative economy and the state-owned economy work together, they will become a great economic force after a long period of effort." "The principle of our economic policy is to carry out all possible and necessary economic constructions, concentrate economic power for war, and strive to improve the lives of the masses, consolidate the economic union of workers and peasants, ensure the proletariat's leadership over farmers, and strive for state-owned economy's leadership over private economy, creating the prerequisites for future development into socialism." It can be said that Mao Zedong has already proposed the ideas of the relationship between the three major components of the New Democratic economy (state-owned economy, cooperative economy, private economy). These economic policy ideas have been guiding the economic construction of the base later.
Thirdly, it expounds the center of economic construction of the revolutionary base and the position of agricultural production. China is one of the earliest developed countries in the world and has the most developed rural natural economy. In China's more than two thousand year feudal society, the main economic form has always been the natural economy combined with agriculture and family handicrafts. Its production is not for exchange, but for the needs of producers or production units. This economic form has continued into modern China. Therefore, Mao Zedong pointed out: "The center of our economic construction is to develop agricultural production, develop industrial production, develop foreign trade and develop cooperatives." He especially emphasized: "Under the current conditions, agricultural production is the first place in our economic work.



"Since ancient times, China has established its nation based on agriculture. Our location is mainly rural and focused on agricultural production, which not only helps to solve our crucial problem of food shortage but also provides materials for industrial and craft productions such as hemp, cotton, sugar cane, and bamboo which are used for making daily goods like clothes, sugar, and paper. Therefore, we must strive to lead the farmers to solve issues related to labor force, farming cattle, fertilizers, seeds, and water resources. It is pointed out that mobilizing women to participate in production, organizing mutual labor assistance, and organizing cattle cooperative are important measures to solve these problems. In particular, it was proposed that water resources are the lifeblood of agriculture.
Fourth, it outlines the basic policy guidelines for the financial base of the revolutionary base. The purpose of the Soviet finance is to ensure the provisioning and supplying of the revolutionary war, to bear all the expenses of the Soviet revolution. Though at that time, the Soviet Republic was only in a relatively small part within the total range of the country, they were economically backward areas that implemented policies favorable to public tax collection based on the principles of the class and revolution. Therefore, the sources of the Soviet's finance are: ① confiscating and levying all feudal exploiters; ② taxation; and ③ the development of the national economic undertakings. Mao Zedong pointed out: "The basic policy of our financial policy is to increase our fiscal revenue from developing the national economy." We need the financial work to serve the development of production, therefore "the issuance of banknotes by the state bank should basically base on the needs of the national economic development, and the needs of pure finance should only be put in a secondary position". At the same time, he pointed out: "Fiscal expenditure should be based on the principle of saving." "It's a principle of our accounting system to save every penny for war and revolutionary causes, and for our economic construction." Every government worker should understand that "corruption and waste are grave crimes". Therefore, the campaign against corruption and waste must be launched.
Under the guidance of Mao Zedong's economic construction thoughts, the economic construction work of various revolutionary bases has developed production vigorously through the hard work of the Soviet government, which not only supported the revolutionary war but also improved the lives of the people in the revolutionary bases. Regarding the thoughts on cultural constructions
China is a country with a very backward culture, and under the reactionary rule of the Kuomintang, illiterates account for 80% of the total population, leading to the ignorance of the people. In response to this, Mao Zedong pointed out: For the victory of the revolutionary war, for the consolidation and development of the Soviet power, for the mobilization of all the people's forces, to join the great revolutionary struggle, in order to create a new era of revolution, the Soviets must carry out cultural education reform, to remove the shackles placed on the minds of the working masses by the reactionary ruling class, and to create a new culture of workers and peasants. Since the establishment of the revolutionary base, great attention has been paid to cultural construction. Elementary schools were established throughout the revolutionary base, allowing the children of the working masses to attend school and study. At the same time, efforts were expanded to eliminate illiteracy, organize various forms of night schools and study classes, and carry out literacy campaigns. The government also developed the publishing industry, published various newspapers and books, mass revolutionary arts also developed, and great achievements were made in physical education and sanitation work. Mao Zedong summarized the experience of cultural and educational work in the revolutionary base, and proposed two basic contents of the thought of cultural and educational construction: First, he proposed the policy of cultural and educational. Mao Zedong pointed out: Our policy of cultural education "is to educate the vast laboring masses in the spirit of communism, to make cultural education serve the revolutionary war and class struggle, to link education with labor, and to make the vast Chinese people all enjoy the happiness of civilization".
Secondly, it proposed the central task of cultural and educational construction.



Mao Zedong pointed out that the central task of the cultural education in the revolutionary base is "to strenuously carry out all compulsory education, to develop extensive social education, to strive to eliminate illiteracy, and to train a large number of senior cadres who lead the revolutionary struggle". For the existing intellectuals, they should serve the people, help train revolutionary intellectuals, and contribute to the development of cultural education.


After the outbreak of the anti-Japanese war, the people's army led by the Chinese Communist Party advanced into the enemy's rear, initiated an independent anti-Japanese guerrilla war, tried to mobilize the masses, and established an anti-Japanese base. With the development of anti-Japanese guerrilla warfare, the anti-Japanese democratic base became increasingly solid and expanded. The anti-Japanese democratic base is an advanced front for implementing and realizing the new democratic theory of the Communist Party of China. The unified front regime led by the Communist Party established in each base, and the various new democratic policies implemented, fully demonstrated that the base had begun to change the semi-colonial and semi-feudal social nature and gradually became a prototype of the new democratic society. The people in the base are truly leading a new life. The people are full of spirit, united under the leadership of the Communist Party of China, striving to defeat the Japanese invaders and achieve a better future. The Party's base construction thought has also been fully developed. In the construction of the anti-Japanese democratic base, the construction of political power is the central link. The basic guiding ideology of the construction of political power in the anti-Japanese democratic base is the "Ten Major Programs of Anti-Japanese National Salvation" formulated by the Chinese Communist Party in the early stage of the Anti-Japanese War and the political program of the new democratic revolution expounded by Mao Zedong in "On New Democracy". Its specific contents are as follows:. On the construction of political power

First, the "three thirds" principle of political power construction has been universally implemented and executed. The political power of the anti-Japanese democratic base is a national unity front. In the construction of political power, the Party conscientiously implements the "three thirds" principle, which is a practice and a system of political democracy by the Party. On March 6, 1940, in the instructions on the issue of political power in the anti-Japanese base issued by the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China, it was clearly stipulated that in the various anti-Japanese bases, in all levels of public opinion agencies or political power agencies, "Communist Party members constitute one third, non-party leftist progressives constitute one third, and those who are neither left nor right constitute one third." On March 11, at a meeting of senior cadres in Yan'an, Mao Zedong reiterated, "the distribution of personnel in terms of political power should be: Communist Party members constitute one third, representing the proletariat and the poor peasants; leftist progressives constitute one third, representing the petite bourgeoisie; moderates and others constitute one third, representing the middle bourgeoisie and enlightened gentlemen, only traitors and anti-communists do not have the right to participate in this political power". On December 25, 1940, the Central Committee's instructions to the Party, drafted by Mao Zedong, formally proposed the name "three thirds” for the first time. On May 1, 1941, the Central Bureau of the Shaanxi-Gansu-Ningxia Border Region of the Communist Party of China proposed that the "Program for the Administration of the Shaanxi-Gansu-Ningxia Border Region" approved by the Political Bureau of the Central Committee stipulated: "In the list of candidates, Communist Party members only constitute one third, so that people of all parties and no party can participate in the activities of the institutions of public opinion and the administration of the border region." On November 21, 1941, in his speech to the Shaanxi-Gansu-Ningxia Border Region Consultative Council, Mao Zedong once again expounded the important significance of implementing the "three thirds" to the Party and the public, and educated Party members that "national affairs are the public affairs of the nation, not the private affairs of a party, therefore Communist Party members only have the obligation to cooperate with non-Party personnel, and they do not have the right to monopolize everything and exclude others". He also made a solemn statement to the non-party personnel: "The principle of democratic cooperation between the Communist Party and the non-party personnel is unchangeable and will never change." He hoped that this cooperation "will now be put into practice at the meeting". The "three thirds" principle of political power construction is an effective democratic system explored by the Party in the construction of political power in the anti-Japanese base, and Deng Xiaoping pointed out in the "Party Life" publication of the Northern Bureau of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China on April 15, 1941: "The essence of the 'three thirds' political power is the issue of democracy..."



"The firm implementation of this extensive democratic system is, on the one hand, due to the need for all societies to unite against common enemies; on the other hand, because each class can represent significant power, they check and balance each other. If there is no unified government that allows all parties, factions, and classes to have a voice, there can be no victory for the entire nation. After the "Tripartite System" policy was proposed, some Communist Party members doubted whether this would weaken the party's leadership. However, this policy precisely ensures the leadership position of the Chinese Communist Party in political power, and firmly unites the petty bourgeoisie masses; on the other hand, it brings all the forces that can be united, such as the enlightened people in the middle bourgeoisie and the landlord class, to the people's side, thereby consolidating the anti-Japanese national united front led by the party, consolidating the anti-Japanese base, and showing the extraordinary leadership ability and superb organizational art of the Chinese Communist Party represented by Mao Zedong. The "Tripartite System" is a specific policy for the construction of political power in the anti-Japanese democratic base, a special form under the specific historical conditions at the time, with distinctive characteristics of the times, but in terms of its basic spirit, it requires the party to unite the masses outside the party in leading state affairs and to implement democratic cooperation with non-party individuals.

Secondly, fully guarantee the democratic rights of the base people. Once the organizing principles are established, whether these principles can be implemented depends on whether our party has extraordinary magnanimity and a serious spirit. During the Anti-Japanese War, the masses of people in all anti-Japanese bases could participate in electoral activities universally, truly exercising their most sacred democratic rights, establishing governments co-operated by communists and individuals from various anti-Japanese parties and non-affiliated individuals, and electing trusted, capable, experienced, people-oriented individuals to leadership positions at all levels. This is an important symbol of practicing democratic politics. The heads of the Shaanxi-Gansu-Ningxia border region and other anti-Japanese bases were all from the masses. Article 2 of the electoral regulations of the Shaanxi-Gansu-Ningxia border region council at all levels stipulates: "Universal, direct, equal, anonymous voting is adopted." Article 3 stipulates: "All people living in the border region, aged 18 and over, without distinction of class, party, occupation, gender, religion, ethnicity, wealth, and educational level, have the right to vote and be voted for. Only traitors, those who have been found guilty by the court and deprived of their citizen rights, and mental patients, do not have the right to vote nor to be voted for. Accordingly, all anti-Japanese classes, whether peasants, workers, landlords, or capitalists; all anti-Japanese parties, whether the Communist Party, the Kuomintang, or other parties; and all ethnicities, whether Han, Manchu, Mongol, Hui, or Tibetan... as long as they are upright, physically healthy, mentally normal, they all have the right to vote, to be voted for, to recall, and to participate in all political activities in the anti-Japanese bases. During the elections, all parties, groups or individuals are free to express their campaign and campaign programs and engage in campaign activities. Not only the working masses actively participate in the election, landlords and rich peasants also enthusiastically participate in the election activities. To embody the national equality of the anti-Japanese National United Front, the anti-Japanese democratic regime has clear provisions for the election rights of ethnic minorities. Ethnic groups that have reached the legal number of members for the council elections can hold their elections separately; ethnic groups that do not meet the legal number but reach one-fifth of the legal number for town elections, county city elections, and border region elections can also hold elections separately, electing one council member of that level. Looking at the proportion of voters in the elections, the principle of democratic equality of the anti-Japanese democratic regime is also demonstrated. Taking the Shaanxi-Gansu-Ningxia border region as an example, there were three democratic elections from 1937 to 1946. In the first election from May to November 1937, the voters who participated accounted for more than 70% of the total electorate; in the second election in 1941, the participants accounted for more than 80% of the total electorate; from March 1945 to March 1946, in the third election, the average voter turnout was 82.5%, reaching a high of 96%. The same was true in other anti-Japanese bases."



In the 1940 elections in the seven counties of the Jin-Cha-Ji base area, the male and female citizens participating in the county election accounted for 78.3% of the total number of citizens, those participating in the district election accounted for 81.4% of the total number of citizens, and those participating in the village election accounted for 83.9% of the total number of citizens. Even in some guerrilla zones where the enemy was "sweeping", the people's elections were not interrupted. If it could not be conducted during the day, it was conducted at night; if a large meeting could not be organized, it was conducted in small groups. In short, every effort was made to achieve the goal. The participation of women in politics is a measure of social progress. In the elections in the anti-Japanese base areas, the proportion of women participating in the elections was also very large, generally reaching about 80%, and the highest reached 90%.

The election activities in the anti-Japanese base areas truly embodied the principles of universality, directness, and equality, ensuring that representatives at all levels have a broad representation. It perfected and consolidated the power at all levels, further strengthening the anti-Japanese unity of all classes, factions, and ethnic groups in the anti-Japanese base areas, promoting the democratization process of the anti-Japanese base areas, and promoting the development of the War of Resistance.

Third, implementing a lean administration. From 1941 to 1943, the Anti-Japanese base areas led by the Chinese Communist Party entered the most difficult stage. The area of the base was halved, the population of the base area dropped from 100 million to less than 50 million, the Eighth Route Army and the New Fourth Army reduced from 500,000 to 300,000, and there were extreme difficulties. Under such severe circumstances, the Party began to implement the policy of "lean military and administration." In November 1941, Mr. Li Dingming proposed the idea of "lean military and administration" at the Second Congress in Shaanxi, Gansu and Ningxia. He pointed out: "In today's difficult situation, the government should come up with a unified economic plan based on the current economic base; third, within the scope of financial and economic capabilities and without hindering the conditions of the war, the principle of lean soldiers should be implemented for the military; fourth, the provision conditions should be specified to avoid unnecessary supply and consumption; fifth, advocate thrift and clean style, and avoid unnecessary waste". Mao Zedong added a note to this proposal: "This is a good method, which is exactly the medicine for our bureaucracy, formalism, and institutionalism." Subsequently, the Party Central Committee issued instructions on lean military and administration to the anti-Japanese democratic base areas in December 1941. Mao Zedong pointed out, “This time the lean military and administration must be strict, thorough, and universal, not superficial, painless, or partial. In this lean military and administration, we must achieve lean, unified, efficient, economical, and oppose bureaucracy.” Starting from the winter of 1941, various anti-Japanese base areas began to implement "lean military and administration". The Shaanxi-Gansu-Ningxia border area simplified three times in a row. The internal agencies of all bureaus, offices, and courts were cut by a quarter, and their affiliated agencies were reorganized from the original 1140 people to 991 people. The directly affiliated agencies of the border area were reduced from 35 to 22, and the staff were reduced from 469 to 279. After the second reorganization, the total number of county (city) governments and county councils in the whole region reduced from the original 1189 people to 397 people, which was 33% of the original number. The original staff of the various district offices was 1250 and was reduced to 955, accounting for 75.6% of the original number.



All other bases were streamlined three to four times as well. The policy of streamlining and efficiency began at the end of 1941 and basically ended at the end of 1943. The anti-Japanese democratic bases claimed significant achievements, and the personnel cut down were returned to the frontline of production. Through this work, old formalized tendencies in the system were corrected, thus establishing a unified leadership structure, opposing bureaucratic tendencies in work, and improving work efficiency. The streamlining had a positive effect, reduced the number of idle personnel, and significantly saved costs. As a result of the lower costs, the number of public debts levied in various bases was accordingly reduced by a third, greatly reducing the burden on the people, improving the credibility of the anti-Japanese democratic government led by the party in the face of severe difficulties, strengthening the bond between the party and the masses, consolidating the united anti-Japanese national front, and creating favorable social conditions and material bases for the victory of the revolution. The War of Resistance against Japan was an important period for our party's ideological theory, policy strategy towards maturity. During this period, the party central committee formulated a series of correct economic policies, accumulating rich experience in guiding economic construction.

Firstly, we established "developing the economy and guaranteeing supply" as the general guideline for financial and economic work. At the beginning of the war of resistance against Japan, in order to make up for the shortfalls in finance and economy and improve the living conditions of the military and civilians, the party led the people in the Shaanxi-Gansu-Ningxia border area to carry out the production movement first and achieved considerable success, which allowed us to relatively smoothly navigate through the most difficult period. However, there was still a difference in understanding within the party about how to fundamentally solve the financial supply problem in the border areas. Some people, restricted by the outdated and conservative view of finance, forgot to develop the economy and source of wealth, and just circled around on the issue of financial income and expenditure, attempting to solve the financial problem by shrinking necessary financial expenditures. Some people, while advocating production development, put forward many adventurous but impractical big plans, such as the construction of heavy industry, development of large salt industry, and military industry, etc. In order to correctly guide the economic construction in the border area, Mao Zedong made an important report in December 1942 at the Northwest Bureau Conference on the "Economic and Financial Issues during the War of Resistance". He correctly summarized the experiences and lessons of financial and economic work in the border area, criticized the above two wrong tendencies, and proposed the general guideline for financial and economic work of "developing the economy, ensuring supply". Mao Zedong said: The quality of financial policy can certainly influence the economy, but it is the economy that determines finance. There is no way to solve financial problems without an economic basis or to enrich finance without economic development. Financial difficulties can only be solved through realistic and effective economic development. It is impossible to solve any problems if you forget to develop the economy and the source of wealth and attempt to solve financial problems by shrinking necessary financial expenses. Here, Mao Zedong clearly pointed out that the fundamental way to solve financial and economic difficulties is to develop the economy, source the wealth, and increase income. Based on this, the party highly emphasized the development of production in the border areas and the actual benefits of production, pointing out that all institutions, schools, and troops must carry out vegetable cultivation, grain cultivation, pig farming, charcoal burning, handicraft industry development, and partial grain cultivation under the condition of war. All factories should depend on their own economic profit and loss for the rise and fall of their business. The common goal of the party branch, administrative leadership, and trade union in the factory is to manufacture as much and as good products as possible with the most economical cost and sell them under the fastest and most favorable conditions. This is to say how to measure the economic construction in the base is not only to see how much wasteland has been reclaimed, how much land has been cultivated, how many factories have been created, but also to see how much social needed products have been produced, and to organically combine individual and unit production with social needs.

The general guideline for financial work proposed by Mao Zedong also clearly pointed out the fundamental purpose of developing the economy in the base. That is to ensure the supply of funds for the war of resistance, to meet the living expenses and business expenses of party, government, and military personnel, and to improve the living conditions of the people.



The overall guideline profoundly elaborates the fundamental guiding principles of the establishment of the base area economy from both the means and the purpose. 

Secondly, focusing on agriculture while also developing other productions is a strategic guideline proposed by the Party for the development of the base area economy. What should be emphasized in developing the rural base area economy? This is a major issue concerning the overall situation, which was initially not very clear to the whole Party. In the first stage of the production movement in the Shaanxi-Gansu-Ningxia border area, the military, government agencies, and schools focused on agricultural production, with agriculture as the primary focus, and achieved good results. In the second stage, to quickly solve the urgent issue of self-sufficiency, many military units, government agencies and schools paid attention to commerce while overlooking agricultural production. The government's production investment also favored industry and commerce over agriculture. This bias of emphasizing commerce while underestimating agriculture was detrimental to the overall economic development of the border region, and it had to be corrected. Therefore, Mao Zedong proposed that for the development of various economic undertakings in the border regions, "agriculture should be given the first place, industry, handicraft, transportation, and animal husbandry the second place, and commerce the third place," thus clarifying the focus and direction of the base area's economic development. To vigorously develop the agriculture of the base area, Mao Zedong, from a practical perspective, also proposed a series of vital economic and technological measures. These mainly are: ① reduce rents and lower interests, alleviate the feudal exploitation of peasants by landlords, and stimulate the interest in production among the peasants; ② organize and establish various forms of agricultural labor assistance organizations, carry out collective production, and increase labor productivity; ③ reward production, launch a labor model movement, reward labor heroes, and advocate laboring for wealth; ④ conform to local conditions, take practical actions, and realistically determine measures to increase production; and improve and upgrade agricultural technology, such as water conservancy projects, and promote fine varieties. All the above measures have played an important role in the development of the base area's agricultural production.

Thirdly, the strategy of "both public and private" or "military and civilian" is an important guideline proposed by the Party to properly handle economic relationships of different natures in the base area. During the Anti-Japanese War, the rural base area economy, generally speaking, had two different forms of economic components: the public economy and the people's economy (i.e., the private economy). The public economy refers to agriculture, industry, and commerce operated by the government, military, offices, and schools; the people's economy refers to all private-sector agriculture, industry, and commerce. How to properly handle the relationship between these two different types of economies in the course of developing the base area economy is a vital issue. At the beginning of the Anti-Japanese War, the Party adopted a policy of "seeking foreign aid, and recuperating the people's strength" in the Shaanxi-Gansu-Ningxia border area. On the one hand, it organized and assisted the people in developing production, on the other hand, it strove to lighten the burden on the people, which resulted in significant recovery and development in the people's economy. Speaking of agriculture, from 1937 to 1940, the cultivated land area increased by about one-third in three years, and the grain output grew by about 45%. However, later due to serious financial and economic difficulties and the implementation of self-sufficiency tasks, especially more attention was paid to the establishment and development of public economy in 1941-1942, neglecting the development of the people's economy. The government's investment in the economy also went primarily to public enterprises, very little went to private enterprises, and the people's burden was excessively increased, which caused widespread dissatisfaction among the people. In order to mobilize both the public and private sectors' enthusiasm for co-developing the base area economy, Mao Zedong proposed the guideline of "both public and private" or "both military and civilian", that is, on the one hand, develop the public economy, and on the other hand, develop the people's economy, implement the co-progress of public and private.



The implementation of the "balance between public and private" or "balance between military and civilian" policy correctly handled the relationship between public and private economies at that time, greatly mobilized the enthusiasm of both the public and private sectors to develop the base economy, and enabled both the public and private economies to achieve relatively good development. The base was also gradually able to provide for themselves and meet their own needs through the joint development of the public and private economies.

Fourthly, "Unified leadership and decentralized operation" is an important principle proposed by the party for organizing and leading the economic life of the base area. The public economy is an important component and leading force of the new democratic economy of the base area. Its establishment and development have a decisive impact on the development of the base economy. In order to organize and lead the development of the public economy in the Shaanxi-Gansu-Ningxia border area, the party Central Committee put forward the principle of "Centralized leadership and decentralized operation" in 1942, distributed some production costs to various units, and asked each unit to operate independently and self-supply. However, this principle was not fully implemented at the time and for some time afterwards. There was too much decentralized operation and not enough centralized leadership, or even no centralized leadership at all, which brought great chaos to the economic life of the border area. People valued businesses that could make quick profits, but neglected agricultural production. There was serious speculation in business, and some even smuggled arms and evaded taxes. Industrial construction rushed ahead regardless of conditions, resulting in some factories being unable to start production or ending shortly after starting. Each unit kept its own profits, leading to uneven distribution of hardships and joys. Those who made money had food and clothing, while those who couldn't, each cadre only received two pounds of cotton to make clothes. This situation was incompatible with the Party's general policy of "developing the economy and ensuring supplies". Therefore, Mao Zedong emphasized in his report on "Economic Problems and Financial Problems" that: "The development of the public economy must implement the principle of 'centralized leadership, decentralized operation'. Not only is industry like this, but so is agriculture and commerce." Mao Zedong further generalized this principle as "unified leadership, decentralized operation". The development of the public economy in the Shaanxi-Gansu-Ningxia border area has fully implemented this principle since 1943: it has unified the operating direction of enterprises by system and level, adjusted the mutual relations between enterprises, and under the condition of allowing a considerable part of the income to be retained by the production units, it has unified the distribution of production profits and let all sides solve problems according to the unified plan, policies and policies. The chaotic situation in the past was quickly reversed, the border area economy achieved relatively smooth development, and the uneven living conditions of personnel in various aspects were overcome. Therefore, Mao Zedong said: "'Unified leadership, decentralized operation' principle, has been proven to be the right principle for our liberation areas to organize all economic life under current conditions." In terms of cultural construction, the Chinese Communist Party, as the leader of base area construction, also directly bears the leadership responsibility for cultural construction. What principles should be followed in cultural construction, what tasks should be completed, what methods should be adopted and what direction should be developed in the process of base area construction, not only are theoretical problems, but have also become practical problems. For this reason, the Chinese Communist Party has undertaken extensive explorations and formulated a more complete set of guidelines and policies.

Firstly, it emphasizes that the basic principle of cultural construction in the base area revolves around the War of Resistance against Japan. At the beginning of the War of Resistance, Mao Zedong proposed in "Guidelines, Methods and Prospects for Resisting Japanese Aggression" that the past educational guidelines and the educational system should be fundamentally reformed. All urgent and irrational methods should be discarded. Newspaper, publication, film, theater, literature, arts, everything needs to be in the interest of national defense. After entering the stalemate stage of the War of Resistance, in October 1938, Mao Zedong further pointed out in his political report "On the New Stage" at the Sixth Plenary Session of the Sixth Central Committee of the Communist Party of China: "Under the principle of everything for the war, all cultural and educational undertakings should be adapted to the needs of the war..."


Therefore, it is necessary to implement the following cultural education policies: First, revise the educational system, abolish urgent and unnecessary courses, change the management system, and base on the principle of teaching courses required for war and promoting students' learning enthusiasm. Second, establish and expand various cadre schools, training a large number of cadres for resisting Japan. Third, extensively develop popular education, organize various remedial schools, literacy movements, theater movements, choral movements, sports movements, establish various local newspapers in front of and behind the enemy, and improve the people's national culture and national awareness. Fourth, implement compulsory primary education, with the aim of educating new generations in the national spirit. The above-mentioned guidelines and policies highlight a basic principle, that is, cultural construction must be closely centered around the war against Japan and serve the comprehensive and long-lasting war against Japan.

Second, it proposed the basic direction of cultural development. In January 1940, Mao Zedong gave a speech at the first representative meeting of the Shaanxi-Gansu-Ningxia Border Region Cultural Association, entitled "The Politics and Culture of New Democracy" (that is, "On New Democracy"), which systematically discussed the historical process and characteristics of China's modern cultural revolution. He proposed the task of "transforming a China that is ignorant and backward under the rule of old culture into a China that is civilized and advanced under the rule of a new culture". This "new culture" is "the national, scientific, and popular culture, that is, the anti-imperialist and anti-feudal culture of the masses". This has actually pointed the way for the development of a new democratic culture, which has immeasurable guiding significance. After the Rectification Movement began, in May 1942, Mao Zedong delivered a speech at the Yan'an Talks on Literature and Art, elaborating on the relationship between literature and art, politics, and the entire revolutionary cause, not only clearly proposing that literature and art must serve the workers, peasants and soldiers, but also further discussing the question of how literature and art serve the workers, peasants and soldiers. These will inevitably have a significant impact on the cultural construction of the base areas of the Anti-Japanese War, and they will become a powerful driving force to promote the cultural and artistic movement in the Anti-Japanese War base areas.

Third, the key to the cultural construction of the base of the Anti-Japanese War is to have a large number of intellectuals and fully play their role. With the consolidation and expansion of the base areas of the Anti-Japanese War, the tasks of propaganda, organization, and arming the masses are extremely difficult, and a large number of cadres and soldiers sacrificed and decreased in the cruel struggle against the enemy, all of which urgently need to absorb a large number of intellectuals to join the party and the army. In this respect, the Chinese Communists represented by Mao Zedong have a very clear understanding. In December 1939, Mao Zedong pointed out in "Absorbing Intellectuals in Large Quantities" that "in the long-term and cruel national liberation war, in the great struggle to establish a new China, the Communist Party must be good at absorbing intellectuals, in order to organize great resistance forces, organize millions of peasant masses, develop revolutionary cultural movement and the united front movement. Without the participation of intellectuals, the victory of the revolution is impossible." In December 1940, Mao Zedong drafted a directive for the central committee of the Communist Party of China, "On Policy," which proposed that "liberal educators, cultural figures, journalists, scholars, and technicians should be allowed to come to the base areas and cooperate with us in running schools, newspapers, and doing things. All intellectuals who are more active in resisting Japan should be absorbed into our schools for short-term training, so that they can join the military, government, and social work." During the Anti-Japanese War, the anti-Japanese base areas centered on Yanan were able to attract a large number of patriotic intellectuals, young students, and elites from the cultural sector, attracting them to come all the way despite the hardships, which cannot be separated from the correct policies of the Communist Party of China.

Fourth, specific policies and regulations suitable for the cultural construction needs of the base areas were formulated. With the gradual implementation of these guidelines and policies, and the continuous expansion and consolidation of the base areas, cultural propaganda activities in the base areas are increasingly active, and cultural associations are established one after another.


The Central Committee of the Party regards cultural propaganda as an important weapon for educating the masses, organizing the masses, and attacking enemies. The cultural undertakings in the Anti-Japanese base areas have become a "necessary and important front in the overall revolutionary front". The party has cultural management departments in its own organization, and there are also cultural management institutions in the government, using various means to promote the development of cultural undertakings. In September 1940, to carry out the cultural movement of the Anti-Japanese War, the CPC Central Committee specifically issued the "Central Directive on Developing a Cultural Movement", which demanded all party organizations and armies in the base areas to "plan and carry out all propaganda activities, educational activities, and publishing activities in an organized manner, in order to popularize and improve the theoretical and political levels of party members, and to popularize and raise the political level of the Anti-Japanese army and the Anti-Japanese people. The theoretical, political, and cultural levels of all members of the base area, the army, and the people should be higher and more extensive than in other parts of the country... The transportation of cultural grain should be regarded as more important than the transportation of clothing and ammunition." In January 1938, the Jinchaji Border Area Military and Civilian Representative Congress passed the "Cultural Education Resolution", which specified the basic principles of cultural education: demonstrating a high spirit of nationalism, strengthening the Anti-Japanese forces; training sound military and political cadres, Leading the Anti-Japanese war; creating specialized technical talents, establishing all kinds of undertakings during the Anti-Japanese war; cultivating passionate new youth, expanding the foundation of the national revolution; improving the cultural level of the general public and promoting their health. In January 1939, the First Senate of the Shaanxi-Gansu-Ningxia Border Region passed the "Shaanxi-Gansu-Ningxia Border Region Anti-Japanese War Program", which fully discussed the cultural education and cultural construction policy in the border region; in November of the same year, the Second Congress of the CPC Shaan-Gan-Ning Border Region Resolution on cultural and educational work in the border area: "Cultural education in the border area must strive to remove the cultural backwardness left by the old regime before the revolution to the masses - illiteracy, superstition, and unsanitary conditions; it must be based on progressive scientific theory and fight for the establishment of a new culture of the Chinese nation."


The theory and strategy of the party's united front originate from the revolutionary strategy principles of the proletariat of Marxism, and have gone through a logical development process in the specific environment of the Chinese revolution. Its first ideological and practical result in the Chinese revolution is the proposal of the party's democratic united front thought and the realization of the first cooperation between the KMT and the Communists.
At that time, the united front objects understood by the Communists were very broad. In January 1923, "Guide" pointed out in its article that "whether a class or a party is revolutionary is not fixed. Under certain historical conditions, the proletariat "can cooperate with the revolutionary actions of any party...any soldier." But such a union can only be a "revolutionary union", not a "compromise union". Specifically, among the various classes in Chinese society, Communists believe that the national bourgeoisie is one of the driving forces of the democratic revolution during the stage of the democratic revolution. The petty bourgeoisie is the basic force of the revolution. The comprador class is fundamentally counter-revolutionary, but because the comprador class is the agent of different imperialists, there are conflicts and conflicts between the interests of different compradors, and therefore, "The Japanese comprador Anfu faction can agree with the anti-British movement in the national revolution", and the "research faction" “Often opposed to the Fengtian warlords". The proletariat "should make the greatest use" of this "internal contradiction conflict" to weaken the "power of the enemy".
Based on the above principles, Communists analyzed the state of China's various political forces around the Second National Congress of the CCP and believed that "the Kuomintang is relatively a revolutionary democratic party and is truly a democratic party". Therefore, the "Resolution on the" Democratic United Front "of the Second National Congress of the Communist Party of China" proposed to "first invite the Kuomintang and the Socialist Youth League to hold a representative meeting at the appropriate place, to discuss how to invite other reform groups and how to carry out" united front work ". This shows that the party at that time not only wanted to ally primarily with the Kuomintang but also to unite with other "reform groups" to form a broad democratic united front.



At that time, given that Wu Peifu showed some support for the people's movement, the Communists believed that it was meaningful to ally with Wu Peifu in "eradicating the Red Beards" ("Red Beards" refers to Zhang Zuolin — note from the translator). Therefore, while the revolutionary party fundamentally advocated "uniting with the people", it did not rule out some "meaningful unilateral alliance" with Wu Peifu. In 1923, after Wu Peifu cause the February 27th tragedy, Chinese Communists immediately adopted the stance of determinedly overthrowing the warlord of the Beiyang Army. Later, with the help of the Communist International, the Party achieved cooperation with the Kuomintang (Nationalist Party) at the beginning of 1924. However, the party's alliance target at this time was still not singular. In October 1924, after Feng Yuxiang launched a coup in Beijing, the Communists, after a period of observation, adopted a policy of allying with Feng Yuxiang and the National Army. After the outbreak of the Anti-Feng War, the democratic tendency of Feng Yuxiang's National Army became clearer, and various political forces also advocated for democratic politics. Under this special situation, Chinese Communists proposed "everyone unite", including the Guangzhou National Government, National Army, all sectors of workers, farmers, businessmen, and students, nationalist faction, the right-wing of the Kuomintang, the left-wing of the Kuomintang, and the communist faction, to jointly promote the National Assembly and create a "real republic". However, due to the rapid reversal of the anti-Feng War situation, the aforementioned proposals of the Chinese Communists could not be realized. But the National Army became the second most important ally after the Kuomintang. The party's theories and policies reflected the basic principles of exploiting contradictions, striving for the majority, and allying with all possible forces under specific historical conditions to fight against the primary enemy.

Among the two main allies at the time, Communists believed that Feng's National Army represented the "anti-comprador rural bourgeoisie". However, the understanding of the class content of the Kuomintang was complex. When the topic of democratic revolution was put on the party's agenda, Communists pointed out that the democratic faction led by the Kuomintang represented the "bourgeoisie". But at that time, the so-called bourgeoisie did not have a definite content. According to the analysis of the Second National Congress of the Communist Party of China's Manifesto, the "bourgeoisie" included the "commercial and industrial bourgeoisie" and the "petty bourgeoisie", but in discussing the alliance of the proletariat with the bourgeoisie, it only mentioned the establishment of a "democratic united front with the petty bourgeoisie". It seems that the so-called democratic bourgeoisie represented by groups such as the Kuomintang specifically refers to the petty bourgeoisie.

The first to point out that the Kuomintang was a multi-class party was the representative of the Comintern, Maring. In July 1922, in his report to the Executive Committee of the Comintern, he pointed out that the Kuomintang was composed of "intellectuals", "overseas Chinese", "soldiers", and "workers". "Overseas Chinese" was the "capitalist factor" in the Kuomintang. In January of the following year, the Executive Committee of the Comintern's "Resolution on the Relationship Between the Chinese Communist Party and the Kuomintang" further pointed out that the class basis of the Kuomintang included "liberal bourgeoisie", "petty bourgeoisie", "intellectuals and workers". Chinese Communists quickly accepted the Comintern's view that the Kuomintang was a temporary alliance of four classes, and pointed out that the interests of the bourgeoisie in this temporary alliance fundamentally conflict with the interests of the workers and peasants.



In May 1924, the Party's Third Plenary Session of the Third Committee analyzed this objective fact and began to divide the Kuomintang into left and right factions. However, it did not yet specify the specific class content of the left and right factions. In the second half of 1924, communists further divided the Kuomintang into left, middle, and right factions. There was no unified view on the class content of these three factions at that time. In July 1926, the Third Plenary Session of the Fourth Committee of the Party further divided the Kuomintang into four forces, namely: the warlords, compradors, bureaucrats and other semi-feudal forces, represented by the right faction. The representatives of the workers and peasants were the Communist faction. The representatives of the petty bourgeoisie were the left faction. The representatives of the national bourgeoisie were the new right or middle faction. This basically clarified the class content of various factions within the Kuomintang. On this basis, the plenary proposed the strategy of "uniting the left and middle factions and attacking the reactionary right faction." The main united front targets of the party were clearly identified as the petty bourgeoisie represented by the left faction of the Kuomintang and the national bourgeoisie represented by the middle faction.

Among the two classes that could be united, communists believed that the petty bourgeoisie was a reliable force for the revolution, while the national bourgeoisie held a "contradictory" attitude towards the revolution and held a unique position in the revolution. Before and after the Second and Third Party Congresses, communists pointed out that the power of the Chinese bourgeoisie was still very "immature", it could not become an "independent class force", and it had a tendency to "compromise" and a mentality of "muddling through" in the revolution. However, at that time, the communists still believed that the bourgeoisie should play a central role in the democratic revolution. "The democratic revolution is indeed in the interests of the bourgeoisie." The assessment of the bourgeoisie's role and status was obviously too high. In May 1924, after the Third Plenary Session of the Third Committee of the Party, communists further pointed out that the revolutionary nature of the bourgeoisie is "always intermittent", and "the higher the bourgeoisie, the more willing they are to compromise". Their participation in the revolution is bound to "not persist to the end". However, the communists overly overlooked the reality of the national bourgeoisie's power, believing that it was in the transition from the comprador class to the national industrial bourgeoisie and could not participate in the revolution. It also had no ambition to seize the leadership of the revolution. This perception existed for a considerable period of time and was the theoretical foundation of the party's inability to address the issue of competing with the bourgeoisie for leadership for a significant period of time. Not until the first half of 1926, Mao Zedong in his article "The Cause of the Split of the Kuomintang Rightist Faction and Its Impact on the Course of the Revolution", truly pointed out that the Chinese bourgeoisie had the intention and action to monopolize the leadership of the revolution and realize the capitalist future. In July of the same year, the Third Plenary Session of the Fourth Committee of the Party also pointed out that "China's bourgeoisie has gradually become an important component of the national movement and has a tendency to lead this movement," and its armed forces are gradually "forming" .


However, its "compromise nature" remains very serious, "once there is a slight victory", it will "betray the revolution and cooperate with the enemy". Therefore, on the one hand, the party should "promote the bourgeois revolution" and see it as a "friendly force". On the other hand, it must prevent future dangers and strive to compete with the bourgeoisie for the leadership of the revolutionary movement. It determined that the national bourgeoisie always has a dual nature during the democratic revolutionary stage. Its weakness does not lie in lack of desire to take leadership, but in guiding the revolution towards failure according to the weak will of this class. It pointed out that the proletariat needs to unite with the national bourgeoisie, be vigilant about its betrayal, and strive to compete with it for leadership of the revolution. This is theoretically completely correct. However, the third plenary session of the Fourth Congress, in correcting the mistake of neglecting the existence of bourgeois forces, also stated that they are forces that the revolution cannot leave at any moment. The unique role of China's national bourgeoisie has not been fully recognized.

From the above analysis, the Chinese Communists basically clarified the proletariat's correct attitude towards alliance partners during the Great Revolution. But it was severely affected by the "typological" error of Comintern in determining the political representation of the united class. At the time, the Communists regarded the left, middle, and right factions of the Kuomintang as primarily the political representatives of the petty bourgeoisie, the national bourgeoisie, and the landlord and comprador classes, which was relatively reasonable, but still somewhat oversimplified and absolutized. The mistake is then definitively seeing Chiang Kai-shek's group as the core of the middle faction, and Wang Jingwei as the representative of the "left" faction. If the boundaries between various parts of the bourgeoisie and the boundaries between them and the imperialist and feudal forces in semi-colonial and semi-feudal China are not fully defined, then the various factions of the Kuomintang representing different levels of the bourgeoisie and their representatives cannot have absolutely different positions. They did not see the complexity of political figures such as Chiang Kai-shek and Wang Jingwei, which emerged from complex Chinese society, and their complex relationship with the landlord comprador class, so they could not understand the complexity and variability of their class attributes. Therefore, before 412, the Party Central Committee chaired by Chen Duxiu, especially the Comintern, always made concessions to Chiang Kai-shek. After 412, the Communists generally accepted the Comintern's "three stages" of revolution, regarded Chiang Kai-shek's betrayal as a sign of the entire national bourgeoisie turning to reactionism, raised the slogan of "opposing the bourgeoisie", and obliterated the dual nature of the national bourgeoisie. And fundamentally limited the target of subsequent unity to the so-called left faction of the Kuomintang centered on the Wang Jingwei group, with unrealistic hopes for it.
Second, the issue of "leadership" and "independence" in the united front were initially raised.
In the stage of democratic revolution, the basic principle of the proletariat's alliance with the democratic bourgeoisie, Marxism-Leninism believes, includes two aspects: one is that the proletariat must grasp the leadership in the alliance; the other is that the proletariat must maintain complete independence. The understanding and recognition of these two principles by the Chinese Communists during the initial establishment of the united front experienced a complex process.
The second congress of the Communist Party of China provided the following provisions for the principle of unity: The proletariat's alliance with the democrats is just to "help the democratic revolution", "not to surrender to the democrats representing the bourgeoisie to be their appendages". At the same time they unite, they gather under the "banner of the Communist Party, independently carrying out their own class movement".



Here, the proletariat's independent thought in the revolutionary united front is clear. However, the communists did not point out the reality of the proletariat's leadership at the meeting, instead interpreting independence as the proletariat being unable to achieve complete liberation in a democratic revolution, and therefore needing to engage in independent class struggle. They are not the ones in command in the absence of alliances, but merely assisting to gain some immediate benefits. In August 1922, with the help of the Communist International, the party established a policy of a united front for cooperation within the KMT and the Communist Party. By the end of the same year, a spokesperson for the party pointed out at the Fourth Congress of the Communist International that when the Chinese Communist Party cooperates with the KMT, it must "compete with the KMT" in terms of organizing and educating the masses, and "divide the KMT". This shows that at the beginning of determining the cooperation within the KMT and the Communist Party, the party had thought of striving for the dominant position in the cooperation.

However, the Fourth Congress of the Communist International negated this principle and made a resolution for cooperation between the KMT and the Communist Party on this basis. Therefore, at the third party congress, there was a heated debate among Communist Party members about the principles of cooperation between the KMT and the Communist Party. Some people, such as Chen Duxiu, fully accepted the resolution of the Communist International, advocating that all members of the Communist Party and industrial workers also join the KMT, and "all work goes to the KMT." This opinion takes a positive attitude towards the issue of cooperation, but mistakenly believes that the party's independence is "not a problem" in the future, and tends to neglect the party's independence. Another group of leaders, like Cai Hesen, believed that it was necessary to "maintain the party's independence" completely after joining the KMT. But they interpreted independence as not all members of the Communist Party joining the KMT, and industrial workers "should not join the KMT." Their idea of "independence" still has the drawbacks of being simplified and superficial.

The above two opinions were unified in the decision of the third congress. The principles of cooperation between the KMT and the Communist Party reflected in the documents of the third congress are: ① Political independence, i.e., maintaining the proletariat party's uncompromising, thoroughly revolutionary political profile with "any imperialist or any warlord". ② Organizational independence, i.e., maintaining the party's "organization" even when joining the KMT, and further "expanding" the party's organization while "strictly" observing party discipline. ③ Independent working class movement, i.e., carrying out the special task of the Communist Party, which is to independently launch trade union movements and class struggles of the working class, while not giving up engaging in the Nationalist Revolution. ④ The need to resist the KMT's erroneous policies and actions.



The leader of the National Revolution is the Kuomintang. These principles, except for the fifth one, which is relatively complex in comprehension, the first four are essentially correct in theory. The shortcomings are: The third item only emphasizes the independence of the workers' movement, but does not point out that the Party should also maintain the right to independent activities in the mass movements of peasants and the petty bourgeoisie, etc. At the same time, the content of independence is just the Party maintains independence in organization, propaganda, and mass movement, without involving the issue of independently carrying out political and military work. The principle of "cooperation" is still very one-sided. In November 923, the first plenary session of the Third Session of the CCP made some new decisions on the principle of cooperation. It requires Communist Party members and Youth League members to "strive to stand in the central position within the KMT". This involves in theory the Communist Party's principle of striving for full control within the united front. However, this idea could not be persisted in and developed, and even the Party's independence of organization and mass movement proposed by the third National Congress of the Communist Party was not implemented in the specific work after the establishment of the KMT-CPC cooperation, resulting in the mistake of taking all the work to the KMT. The third session of the Third National Congress of the Party initially corrected this error, and the Fourth Congress of the CPC summed up the practical experience of KMT-CPC cooperation in earnest, adding the following new content to the cooperation principle: ① Recognized the leading position of the proletariat in the democratic revolution. ② More clearly emphasized that the independent development of the "industrial workers' movement is the" fundamental work of the proletarian party. ③ Proposed the principle that industrial workers "must have work needs to join the KMT". ④ Initially proposed the task of organizing the peasant movement independently. The fourth CCP National Agricultural Resolution pointed out that in the peasant movement, the Communist Party "must independently carry out... public propaganda and branch work outside the KMT".
The proposal of the above principles shows that communists have a further understanding of the special position of the proletarian party in cooperation. However, these principles have not yet turned into correct practical policies. The leadership of the proletariat is still the leadership of the mass movement by the proletarian party, and "independence" remains merely to carry out the labor and peasant movement independently. It further requires the whole party in the labor and peasant movement, especially in the industrial workers' movement, to maintain a certain distance from allies, implement the policy of industrial workers "joining the KMT as needed". There is a lack of independent conduct and leadership of political and military work to change the balance of power in cooperation, ensure the united front plays its role according to the will of the proletariat and its party, and transform the victory of the democratic revolution into the victory of the proletariat and realize the content of the socialist prospect.
The new rightists of the KMT could not tolerate the very limited independent activities of the CCP either. The occurrence of incidents such as the Zhongshan Warship Incident and the Party Affairs Sorting Case indicates that the rightists have begun to gradually restrict and cancel the CCP's independent activities.



After the establishment of the High Command of the Northern Expedition, Chiang Kai-shek further openly used the Northern Expedition as an excuse, and issued a series of laws restricting the independent struggle of workers and peasants. In view of the above situation, the Chinese Communists once proposed the idea of "withdrawing from the Kuomintang" and "preparing independent military forces" to confront Chiang Kai-shek. However, the Communist International neither supported the Chinese Communist Party's independent military activities nor "firmly opposed the demand for withdrawing from the Kuomintang" and didn't allow “the standpoint that essentially led to the withdrawal from the Kuomintang" to exist. It also explicitly pointed out that this understanding of the "independence of the Chinese Communist Party" was not permissible. In July 1926, the 3rd Executive Committee of the Fourth Communist Party proposed the issue of the struggle for leadership between the proletariat and the bourgeoisie, pointing out that the party needed to "show more self-independence in politics" and "establish its own influence among workers and the majority of peasants". This shows that the entire party was increasingly aware of the significance of the proletariat gaining revolutionary leadership and maintaining independence amid a series of betrayals by Chiang Kai-shek. The issue remains, however, that neither "leadership" nor "independence" was directly connected with the issue of arms and political power. It was also made clear that the role was only to assist the left wing, not "replace the left wing". This proposition was almost an identical copy of the Communist International’s directive "not to attempt to lead with Communists replacing the 'left wing'”. Its incorrect direct origin is obviously the Communist International.

As the Northern Expedition War moved into the Yangtze River region, the Kuomintang right wing's anti-labor and peasant activities became more obvious, and communists saw even more the seriousness of Chiang Kai-shek's expanding power. The Central Bureau of the Party's report pointed out that after the Zhongshan Warship incident, Chiang Kai-shek’s group gradually squeezed out the Communist Party and the left wing of the Kuomintang, forming a "loud and noisy alien domination". Some left-wing leaders "were fundamentally shaken". Under these circumstances, communists further believed that they could not replace the left wing as leaders, but help the left wing gain the "masses" and "take responsibility for themselves". The Hankou Special Meeting in December 1926 (also known as the December Special Meeting) further pointed out that the Party could not monopolize all popular movements such as "workers, farmers, merchants, students" and "political struggle". It also clarified that the Party's independence only refers to the independence of "political propaganda and party organization". The previously emphasized independence of the worker-peasant movement was also abandoned. Of course, changes made by the Hankou Special Meeting emphasized cooperation with the left wing in the workers and peasants movement and political struggle, to avoid "full conflict with the Kuomintang", which was not unreasonable. The problem is that the conference did not propose specific measures for the Party to take full control of the Democratic Revolution by expanding the left wing, but instead believed that the party should give up some power to the left wing, thereby distancing itself from the Democratic faction, which led to a reduction in the principle of "cooperation". In spring 1927, after the resolution of the 7th expanded Executive Committee of the International reached China, and especially after Chiang Kai-shek's betrayal of the revolution, Chinese Communists accepted the International's revolutionary "three stages" theory, believing that the Chinese revolution had entered a period of alliance of the three classes of workers, peasants, and the petty bourgeoisie, and that cooperation between the two parties had already become the task of jointly establishing and leading the democratic dictatorship of the workers, peasants, and the petty bourgeoisie, with cooperation being "even closer". But in fact, this was not the case. The closer it got to the late stages of the Great Revolution, the so-called left wing represented by Wang Jingwei quickly transformed into a representative of the landlord and comprador classes, with betrayal becoming increasingly evident and the situation becoming more serious. Despite the fact that the communists and representatives of the Communist International theoretically thought that "cooperation" had become even closer, they also saw the seriousness of this situation from a realistic point of view.


However, they did not provide a practical answer to how to maintain the independence of the proletariat under these conditions. The international representative, Luo Yi, made a special report on "The Relationship between the Chinese Communist Party and the Kuomintang and the Independence of the Communist Party" in the Political Bureau of the CCP Central Committee, emphasizing that after Chiang Kai-shek's betrayal, the Communist Party must still maintain "independence" within the Kuomintang. However, when it came to specific ways to maintain independence, he merely repeated the three principles of "developing the land revolution, strengthening the worker's movement, and winning over the petty bourgeoisie," without any specific methods. Later, Luo Yi proposed to overthrow the Kuomintang Central Committee through a coup, thus changing the content of cooperation and maintaining the independence of the Communist Party. This is obviously unrealistic. The Communist International only sent a "May Directive" after some delay, proposing to establish "eight divisions or ten divisions with reliable commanders" and to set up a "Revolutionary Military Tribunal" to punish reactionary officers. From a basic theoretical point of view, this directive is obviously correct. But under the conditions at the time, this path was also clearly unworkable.

Meanwhile, the CCP's principle of united front also underwent changes. In leading the Shanghai workers' armed uprising, the Party explicitly put forward the principle of the workers leading the armed uprising, seizing power, calling a meeting of representatives from all walks of life to establish a civilian democratic regime, and partly made this principle a reality. Here, "leadership" and "independence" were linked for the first time with issues of arms and power. However, the method of seizing power in Shanghai was not suitable for the objective reality of Chinese society, and the struggle to establish a democratic regime also failed due to a dramatic imbalance of power. At the same time, the Communist International also disapproved of the method of seizing power through the armed uprising of Shanghai workers, advocating for Communists to participate in the Wuhan Kuomintang government. The Chinese Communists accepted the opinion of the Communist International, decided to participate in the Wuhan government and the local governments of the Kuomintang at all levels, and transformed them into a democratic dictatorship of workers, peasants and the petty bourgeoisie. There was still the content of independently carrying out political power activities in theory. However, because the Communists did not propose fundamentally effective measures to transform the army as a pillar of power, the aim of reforming the Kuomintang's power was not achieved, the Party's independent activities were increasingly threatened, and ultimately lost its independence and leadership.

Third, establishing the form of cooperation within the party

At the beginning of the issue of establishing a united front, there was a significant disagreement between the Chinese Communists and the Communist International on the form of "cooperation", until the Xihu Conference in August 1922 preliminarily determined the form of cooperation within the Guomindang and Communist parties. Looking at the activities of the Party at the First National Congress of the KMT and afterwards, the form of cooperation between the KMT and the Communist Party as understood by the Communist International and Chinese Communists at that time included three aspects.

First, members of the Chinese Communist Party joined the KMT in their personal capacity. In the history of the international communist movement, the form of communist joining democratic parties in a union style was precedent to follow.



Marx and Engels led members of the Communist League to participate in democratic groups like the bourgeoisie-styled Cologne Democratic Association in Germany during the European Revolution in 1848. In 1917, Marin advised members of the Indonesian Social Democratic League to join the bourgeoisie's Islamic League. The first cooperation between the Chinese Communist Party and the Chinese Nationalist Party (Kuomintang) drew directly from the latter. Nonetheless, these two instances of cooperation had very little in common. Indonesia, although a backward Asian colonial country, had a political environment characterized by many Western features. Therefore, even though the Indonesian revolution was a national one, it could adopt the methods of Western democratic revolutions to a considerable extent. China, as a semi-colonial and semi-feudal country without a democratic tradition and without a bourgeoisie democracy to leverage, required that the cooperation between the Communist Party of China (CPC) and the Chinese Nationalist Party be implemented in a peculiar Chinese way. Communist International, under whose guidance CPC members joined the Nationalist Party as individuals, helped the Nationalist Party build according to the Soviet model, and later assisted to establish a powerful government. This move, unprecedented in the history of international communism, was necessary given China's unique national conditions.

Since the cooperation between the CPC and the KMT took a peculiar form, it required a corresponding strategy to ensure success. Under the then prevailing conditions in China, a party with strict organizational discipline, a powerful armed force, and a regime combined with such a party and army, if under the control of the proletariat, would become a potent weapon for the people's liberation struggle and the exercise of people's rights. If combined with dictatorial forces, it would easily become a tool for individual fascist dictatorship. Sun Yat-sen was a loyal democratic warrior who saw this unity in terms of republican weaponry. However, the KMT was not just Sun's party; within it, a mixture of representatives from all classes congregated. Anti-Communist and anti-Soviet forces manifested from the beginning; the elements establishing a personal fascist dictatorship using the KMT's party, government, and military organizations were evident and gradually evolved.

Given the CPC, especially the designers of the CPC-KMT cooperation in the Communist International, was helping a non-proletariat party establish a rigid organization, powerful military, and a manageable government, they needed to ensure from the beginning that the political entity they helped to build would not become an alien force. 

However, when defining the internal cooperation between the CPC and the KMT, the Communist International did not do this. The CPC's strategy also had a flaw. As mentioned before, the party had formed the basic understanding since the Second National Congress of the CPC: once the democratic revolution succeeds, the proletariat could not be thoroughly liberated; a second revolution against the bourgeoisie was necessary. Hence, the proletariat party's cooperation with the democratic KMT was a temporary strategy. The proletariat's participation in the democratic revolution was seen as aiding the democrats, a notion that persisted for a long time. The Fourth National Congress of the CPC suggested the working class to join the KMT as necessary and not to expand the organization for the KMT unnecessarily. It restricted the scope of this "aid," essentially suggesting maintaining a certain distance from democrats. The Communist International regarded this change in cooperation principles at the Fourth National Congress of the CPC as a transition from a "close alliance" to a "political union" between the two parties. This statement was vague, leaving the exact meaning and specific form of "political union" undefined and failing to point out the specific difference between a "political alliance" and a "close alliance."

Due to the lack of special strategies by the Communist International and the Chinese Communists in implementing cooperation within the united front of the Kuomintang and the Communist Party, and the failure to formulate specific guidelines to firmly grasp the direction of cooperative development, the leadership of the cooperation gradually began to transform into a tool of dictatorship after the death of Sun Yat-sen. Following Sun Yat-sen's death, the "Western Hills Faction" took up the banner to oppose the "Three Policies". Chiang Kai-shek took advantage of these anti-Communist forces to gradually unfold his dictatorial conspiracies, seizing the opportunity of the Northern Expedition to completely take control of the machinery of the Kuomintang and begun restricting the independent activities of workers and peasants. Faced with the increasingly clear sign of new warlord's dictatorship, the Communist International had still not reminded and warned the Chinese Communists to take effective measures to prevent this dangerous development, and their strategy remained blind. The Chinese Communists, on the other hand, saw this danger clearly and clearly raised the slogan of opposing both the Beiyang military dictatorship and the new military dictatorship.

In response to the development trend of military dictatorship of the new right-wing of the Kuomintang, the Communists also proposed changing the form of cooperation: after the Zhongshan Warship Incident, the Communists proposed to "withdraw from the Kuomintang", which in fact was to completely change the internal party cooperation to external union. This opinion was negated by the Communist International. After that, the party proposed partial modification to the form of cooperation at the Third Executive Meeting of the Fourth Session, and pointed out in its resolution: "The Kuomintang's organization should not be an autocratic party in the form of one class, with severe discipline and regulations, but it now needs to bring many petty bourgeois revolutionary masses into the Kuomintang, so the party's organization form can be more flexible... It needs to have the nature of a political club." Tan Pingshan, representing the CPC Central Committee, submitted a written report to the 7th Executive Committee of the Communist International, further pointing out: "The organizational rules of the Kuomintang are almost as strict as those of the Communist Party, which does not meet the needs of China's situation. These stringent rules are not only unhelpful, but even harmful." The Communist International only formally recognized this viewpoint of the Chinese communists in May 1927. The resolution of the Eighth Executive Committee of the Communist International on Chinese issues stated: "The tasks facing the Kuomintang require corresponding changes in its organizational form. It must be reorganized as soon as possible based on the approach that strongly supports masses... The working, farmer, soldier organizations and craftsmen organizations must be collectively accepted... to join the Kuomintang." This proposed a reorganization plan for the Kuomintang, which was exactly the opposite of that in 1924, but these plans were not implemented and there was no possibility of implementation.

Faced with this severe situation, the Chinese Communists and the Communist International did not take effective measures to reverse the transformation of the united front organs into tools of dictatorship. After the Zhongshan Warship Incident, the party central committee, presided over by Chen Duxiu, adopted a policy of retreat. During the Northern Expedition, the party central committee put forward the concept of resisting the tendency of dictatorship through a wide National Assembly Movement, and stirred up the "Party Power Movement" and "Welcoming Wang Jingwei's return to office" movement within the Kuomintang, as well as balancing power among various military factions, attempting to stop Chiang Kai-shek's dictatorial process through these means, without proposing truly effective measures. The Communist International, on the other hand, advocated eradicating the dictatorship tendency by having large masses of revolutionaries swiftly join the Kuomintang. At the Seventh Enlarged Executive Committee meeting, the Communist International proposed allowing Communist Party members to participate in the Nationalist government, thereby expanding the scope of "internal party cooperation" from within the party and the military to within the government. This marked a major evolution in the form of first cooperation between the KMT and the CPC. The Eighth Executive Committee meeting further emphasized this principle and proposed the task of the Communist Party to take over the leadership within the Kuomintang. However, this was not meant to change the balance of power within the united front, thereby ensuring the smooth transition from the democratic revolution to the socialist revolution.



Stalin, based on the experience of the "October Revolution," asserted that it was impossible to transition from a democratic revolution to a socialist revolution by transforming the Kuomintang government into a dictatorship of the working classes, small farmers, and petty bourgeoisie. He believed that eventually, like the October Revolution, the transitional regime established in the democratic revolution could only be overthrown by armed conflict to achieve the conversion of the two-step revolution. However, the Comintern still did not propose a clear guideline for the Communist Party to independently arm itself, and its strategy was contradictory. With Chen Duxiu presiding over the party central, under the direction of this blind policy and in the context of fierce conflict, it would be even less likely to take immediate, strong measures to salvage the dangerous situation.

History has proven that in semi-colonial and semi-feudal China, it was correct and of tremendous historical significance for the Communists to establish a revolutionary united front in the form of cooperation within the Communist Party, helping the Kuomintang to rebuild a centralized and unified party, a powerful armed force, and an effective government, following the template of the USSR. However, the Comintern and the CCP center under Chen Duxiu's leadership focused only on the independence of the Party's organization and mass movement, failed to seize comprehensive leadership within the united front, and failed to adopt a strategy surpassing allies in overall strength ratio, causing a sharp contradiction between content and form. Unquestionably, this was one of the major reasons for the loss of the great revolution.

During the great revolution, the Chinese Communist Party was in its infancy. The whole party, including Mao Zedong's theoretical strategy, inevitably carried the characteristics of this youthful period. Therefore, at that time, it was impossible for the party to solve all the theoretical and strategic problems of the united front correctly. It was not until the new period of the Anti-Japanese War that, under the leadership of Mao Zedong, the wisdom and experience of the entire party were greatly developed and enriched, resulting in a broader Anti-Japanese National United Front, symbolized by second KMT-CCP Cooperation, which played a substantial role in winning the Anti-Japanese War.

Section II: The Thought and Policy Strategy of Establishing the Anti-Japanese National United Front

1. Establishment of the Principle of Independence and Autonomy in the Anti-Japanese National United Front

The Anti-Japanese National United Front, advocated by the Chinese Communist Party, is a broad alliance based on the cooperation of the KMT and the Communist Party, including all anti-Japanese classes, strata, political parties, groups, patriots, ethnic minorities, compatriots in Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan, and overseas Chinese. During this period of the Anti-Japanese War, it mobilized the national army and the common people to the greatest extent, became the most effective organizational form of national resistance, and was a decisive factor in defeating the Japanese invaders. The formation and application of the thought and policy strategy of the Anti-Japanese National United Front is a great achievement of the Chinese Communist Party in combining the strategic thought of the proletarian revolution with the concrete practice of leading the Anti-Japanese War.

The principle of "independence and autonomy in the Anti-Japanese National United Front" of the Chinese Communist Party means maintaining the political, ideological, and organizational independence of the Communist Party in the Anti-Japanese National United Front while also promoting unity. This principle, in essence, insists on the leadership of the Communist Party in the Anti-Japanese National United Front and the Anti-Japanese War.


From December 1935 to July 1937. During this stage, the CPC Central Committee and Mao Zedong proposed the policy of establishing the Anti-Japanese National United Front while emphasizing the Communist Party's leadership in the United Front. This prepared for the "independence and autonomy within the Anti-Japanese National United Front" principle. In late December 1935, the CPC Central Committee held a Politburo meeting in Wayaobao, Shaanxi. On December 25, the meeting passed the "Resolution on the Current Political Situation and the Party's Tasks" (hereinafter referred to as the "Resolution"). The "Resolution" proposed that the party's line is to "mobilize, unite and organize all revolutionary forces of the whole Chinese nation" and establish "the broadest Anti-Japanese National United Front." While emphasizing the establishment of the Anti-Japanese National United Front, the "Resolution" also stressed the Communist Party's leadership in the united front. The "Resolution" pointed out that the Communist Party "should unswervingly fight against all tendencies of wavering, compromise, surrendering and betrayal within the Anti-Japanese United Front," and "strive for their leadership in the Anti-Japanese front with their thoroughly correct words and actions against Japan and traitors." "Only under the leadership of the Communist Party can the Anti-Japanese movement achieve complete victory." After the meeting, Mao Zedong made a report on the "Strategy Against Japanese Imperialism" at the Party Activists' Meeting, systematically clarifying the issue of the party's leadership in the Anti-Japanese National United Front. Mao Zedong pointed out, "The Communist Party and the Red Army are not only initiating the Anti-Japanese National United Front, but they will also inevitably become a strong pillar in the future Anti-Japanese government and the Anti-Japanese military." "As long as the Communist Party and the Red Army exist and develop, then the Anti-Japanese National United Front will also exist and develop. This is the leadership role of the Communist Party and the Red Army in the National United Front." Mao Zedong also took the failure of the 1927 Revolution as an example to emphasize the importance of the party's leadership in the united front. On April 20, 1936, Zhang Wentian emphasized in the article "Several Questions on the Anti-Japanese People's United Front" that, "the Communist Party, the Soviet Union and the Red Army must become the strong core of the united front," and "the Communist Party, the Soviet Union and the Red Army are to promote, create and expand the Anti-Japanese People's United Front through actions and struggles. We are the locomotive and propeller of the Anti-Japanese People's United Front." On September 1, 1936, the CPC Central Committee pointed out in the "Instructions on Forcing Chiang Kai-shek to Fight Against Japan" that "our overall policy should be to force Chiang to fight against Japan," and at the same time emphasize that we "are the organizers and leaders of the Anti-Japanese United Front of all parties and factions (including Chiang Kai-shek's Kuomintang)." In the first half of May 1937, the CPC Central Committee held a national representative meeting of the party in Yan'an. Mao Zedong made the "Tasks of the Chinese Communist Party in the Anti-Japanese Period" report and the conclusion of "Struggling to Mobilize Millions of Masses into the Anti-Japanese National United Front" at the meeting. Mao Zedong pointed out, "Is the proletariat following the bourgeoisie, or is the bourgeoisie following the proletariat? This issue of the leadership responsibility of the Chinese revolution is the key to the success or failure of the revolution." "Today, the bourgeoisie represented by the Kuomintang still has a lot of passivity and conservatism," "This situation has increased the political leadership responsibility of the proletariat and its party." Mao Zedong pointed out, "How does the proletariat realize its political leadership to all revolutionary classes through its party? First, it is to propose basic political slogans according to the historical development process, and mobilize slogans for each development stage and major event," "as the concrete goals of the unified actions of the people across the country." "Second, when acting across the country according to these concrete goals, the proletariat, especially its vanguard Communist Party, should bring up their unlimited enthusiasm and loyalty and become the model to achieve these concrete goals." "Third, on the principle of not losing the confirmed political goal, establish a proper relationship with allies, develop and consolidate this alliance...



"Fourthly, the development of the Communist Party, the unity of thought, and the strictness of discipline." Mao Zedong also used the lesson of Chen Duxiu's right-leaning capitulationism "lowering the party's stance, blurring the party image, and sacrificing the interests of workers and farmers" leading to the failure of the revolution to illustrate the importance of adhering to the leadership of the proletariat in the united front.
From August 1937 to November 1937. The Central Committee of the Communist Party of China and Mao Zedong clearly put forward the principle of self-reliance in the united front, and initially expounded this principle. After the start of the National Anti-Japanese War in July 1937, representatives of the Communist Party of China such as Zhou Enlai, Qin Bangxian, Lin Boqu and others continued to negotiate with representatives of the Kuomintang on issues such as the cooperation between the Nationalists and the Communists and the reorganisation of the Red Army. On August 1, Mao Zedong and Zhang Wentian pointed out in a telegram to Zhou Enlai, Qin Bangxian, and Lin Boqu that after the Red Army was reorganised, it should "carry out guerrilla warfare independently under the whole strategic guideline," "not be bound in tactical warfare," and "only in this way can the strengths of the Red Army be exerted and a substantial blow given to the Japanese invaders." On August 4, Mao Zedong and Zhang Wentian telegraphed Zhou Enlai, Zhu De, and Ye Jianying, asking them to propose at the Nanjing Defense Conference that "regular warfare and guerrilla warfare should be combined, and guerrilla warfare should be carried out by the Red Army and other suitable units under the overall strategic deployment, given independent command." In late August 1937, the Political Bureau of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China held an expanded meeting in Luochuan, Shaanxi. The meeting decided that: the leadership of proletariat must be adhered to in the united front; to carry out independent guerrilla warfare in the mountains behind the enemy lines, open up battlefields behind the enemy lines, and establish Anti-Japanese bases behind enemy lines; to start Anti-Japanese mass movements in the Kuomintang-ruled areas, fight for the political and economic rights the people should have; and to reduce rent and interest as the basic policy to solve the peasant problem during the Anti-Japanese War period. In October 1937, Mao Zedong once again explained in a conversation with British reporter Betrand: "The method of warfare currently used by the Eight Route Army is what we call independent guerrilla warfare and mobile warfare." Obviously, from the beginning of August 1937 to October, the Party Central Committee and Mao Zedong have clearly put forward the "independent and self-reliant" principle, but this "independent and self-reliant" mainly refers to military independence. On November 12, 1937, Mao Zedong emphasized at a meeting of the party's activists in Yan'an that "the principle of independence and self-reliance must be closely linked to all united front work" in response to the trend of class capitulationism within the party and the trend of national capitulationism within the Kuomintang group. He pointed out that “the explanation, practice and adherence to the principle of independence and self-reliance within the united front is the central link in leading the Anti-Japanese National Revolutionary War to victory." In this way, the principle of independence and self-reliance in the Anti-Japanese National United Front was clearly and comprehensively put forward.

From November 1937 to November 1938, the Party Central Committee represented by Mao Zedong struggled against Wang Ming's right-leaning errors, establishing the principle of independence and self-reliance in the Anti-Japanese National United Front throughout the party. At the end of November 1937, Wang Ming, a representative of the Communist Party to the Comintern, a member of the Executive Committee of the Comintern, and a member of the Presidium, returned from the Soviet Union. He proposed that the emphasis on independence and democracy in the Luochuan meeting was wrong. He opposed the principle of independence and self-reliance in the party's united front, emphasized that "everything should go through the united front" and "everything should obey the united front", and put forward a relatively systematic right-leaning error. Wang Ming's erroneous views had a certain impact within the party, preventing the principle of independence and self-reliance in the Anti-Japanese National United Front from being fully implemented, and causing certain damage to the party's work. The Party Central Committee represented by Mao Zedong conducted necessary struggles against Wang Ming's right-leaning errors, preventing his erroneous views from being formed into resolutions. The Party Central Committee and Mao Zedong continued to uphold the principle of independence and self-reliance in the united front in their actual leadership work, pushing the party's work forward continuously. From the end of September to early November 1938, the Sixth Plenary Session of the Sixth Central Committee of the Communist Party of China was held in Yan'an.



The conference passed the "Expanded Political Resolution of the Sixth Plenary Session of the CCP," approving the line of the Central Political Bureau represented by Mao Zedong. The conference criticized conciliationism on the issue of the united front, and basically overcame Wang Ming's right deviation error. In the conclusion made at the conference, Mao Zedong specially emphasized and elaborated on the issue of independence and self-reliance within the united front. He pointed out: "In short, we must never break the united front, but we must not bind ourselves." "Our principle is the independence and self-reliance within the united front, both united and independent." The political resolution passed by the plenary meeting also emphasized that "we should insist on ensuring the independence of the Communist Party in politics and organization". Thus, the principle of independence and self-reliance in the Anti-Japanese National United Front was established throughout the party.

Second, the establishment of the Anti-Japanese National United Front is a broad alliance based on the cooperation between the Kuomintang and the Communist Party

On the issue of the composition of the Anti-Japanese National United Front, Mao Zedong pointed out: "Our task is to merge the activities of the Red Army with those of the workers, peasants, students, petty bourgeoisie, and national bourgeoisie, into a unified national revolutionary front." To accomplish this task, considering the specific circumstances of the Anti-Japanese war period, it is necessary to extensively carry out the work of the upper-level united front.

Firstly, the party will strive to unite patriotic leaders of all parties and groups as a breakthrough in carrying out upper-level united front work. Mao Zedong, on behalf of the Party Central Committee, once wrote letters to Shen Junru, Zou Taofen, Tao Xingzhi, Zhang Naiqi, Song Qingling, and Cai Yuanpei, expressing enthusiastic support for their Anti-Japanese patriotic claims and activities. This publicity of the political propositions of the Chinese Communist Party for Anti-Japanese salvation gained positive responses from patriotic democrats. Among them, people like Lu Xun, Mao Dun, Song Qingling had written letters to the Party Central Committee expressing their support for the Chinese Communist Party's Anti-Japanese union.

Secondly, the work to strive for local power holders to join the Anti-Japanese National United Front is the central link in the upper-level united front work. Mao Zedong, Zhou Enlai, Zhu De and other central leaders carried out the united front work actively for Zhang Xueliang and Yang Hucheng in Shaanxi; Yan Xishan in Shanxi; Chen Jitang, Li Zongren, Bai Chongxi in Guangdong and Guangxi; Liu Xiang, Liu Wenhui in Sichuan; Long Yun in Yunnan; Feng Yuxiang, Song Zheyuan, Fu Zuoyi in North China, through letters or public talks. They especially strengthened the effort to win over the Northeast Army under Zhang Xueliang in Shaanxi and the Seventeenth Army under Yang Hucheng. In November 1935, Mao Zedong wrote a letter to Dong Yingbin, the commander of the 57th Army of the Northeast Army, explaining the Anti-Japanese united front policy of the Communist Party. On January 25, 1936, Mao Zedong and Zhou Enlai, as leaders of the Red Army, issued a "Letter to the Soldiers of the Northeast Army" pointing out that the enemies of the Northeast Army are Japanese imperialism and the traitor Chiang Kai-shek, and the only way out for the Northeast Army is to fight against Japan and Chiang Kai-shek. Also, they clearly expressed that the Red Army is willing to unite with the Northeast Army to fight against Japan first, and they hope to send representatives to negotiate jointly. Through the hard work of our party, the majority of the officers and soldiers of the Northeast Army were the first to accept the proposal of a united anti-Japanese war. As a result of talks between Zhou Enlai, Li Kenong and Zhang Xueliang, Zhang Xueliang was on the path to fight against Japan in alliance with the communists.



Meanwhile, considering Yang Hucheng's good relationship with the Chinese Communist Party during the Great Revolution and afterwards, the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China (CPC) immediately sent Wang Feng with a handwritten letter from Mao Zedong to meet Yang Hucheng, and also dispatched party cadres such as Wang Bingnan to the 17th Route Army to work with Yang Hucheng, which quickly led to an agreement between Yang Hucheng and the Red Army to cease civil war and resist Japan together. Thus, the policy of the national united front against Japan implemented by the Communist Party of China achieved a significant victory in the northwest region first.

Thirdly, the CPC dealt with the Chiang Kai-shek group. In the winter of 1935, the Chinese Communist Party sent representatives to negotiate with the Kuomintang in Nanjing on establishing the Anti-Japanese National United Front, which was first proposed by the Kuomintang. The negotiations were carried out under extremely confidential circumstances. The main issues of the negotiation were ending the civil war, establishing a national defense government, forming an anti-Japanese alliance, restructuring the Red Army, establishing southern guerrilla forces, opening up anti-Japanese public sentiment, releasing political prisoners, and halting land reform. The negotiations lasted until the Xi'an Incident, and no specific agreement had been reached, as the Chiang Kai-shek group showed no sincerity. However, Mao Zedong and the Chinese Communist Party made great efforts to achieve the second cooperation between Kuomintang and the communist party for a common resistance against Japan. On April 25, 1936, the CPC Central Committee issued a declaration for the creation of a united front among all parties and classes against Japan, for the first time openly including the Kuomintang in the united front.

In dealing with Chiang Kai-shek's group, the Chinese Communist Party made a strategic shift from "anti-Chiang" to "pressuring Chiang to resist Japan". After the shocking "Xi'an Incident", the national situation became extremely complex and Mao Zedong's party central committee astutely proposed a peaceful solution based on the interests of the Chinese nation. This, along with the efforts of a delegation led by Zhou Enlai, forced Chiang Kai-shek to accept a six-point plan including cessation of civil war and a united resistance against Japan. This essentially put an end to the ten years of civil war and laid the groundwork for a united front against Japan.

Thirdly, a comprehensive explanation of the strategic principles and basic policies of the Anti-Japanese National United Front.

Several key issues were correctly resolved in the strategic thinking of the Communist Party of China on the Anti-Japanese National United Front. These involved properly managing the relationship between national struggle and class struggle within the united front. Mao Zedong firmly grasped the primary contradiction between China and Japan, and conducted a detailed analysis of the unique contradictions within the national united front.



He wrote, "War is first analyzed for its characteristics, and so is the united front - the contradiction between China and Japan and the contradictions within the country." He used the regularity and characteristics of the anti-Japanese national united front as the basis for formulating strategies. In the fight against Japan, there is both a national struggle and an internal class struggle, which generalizes as the national struggle, subordinating the class struggle to the anti-Japanese national struggle, which is the fundamental principle of the anti-Japanese united front. He emphasized the consistency of the two, pointing out: "In the national struggle, the class struggle appears in the form of the national struggle, which shows the consistency of the two. On the one hand, the political-economic demands of the class require non-break cooperation within a certain historical period; on the other hand, all demands of class struggle should start from the needs of national struggle (for anti-Japanese). Thus, the unity and independence, national struggle and class struggle, anti-Japanese and democracy are combined in the united front, essentially also the relationship between national struggle and class struggle, striving for democracy for the anti-Japanese, the government granting the necessary democracy and political freedom to the people, especially the freedom to organize, train, and arm for self-defense, which can achieve comprehensive anti-Japanese. However, there is also appropriate class struggle in the national struggle, such as preserving the independence of parties and classes, insisting on the limited rights of parties and classes, freedom of criticism, improvement of people's political and economic conditions, etc., which are beneficial to united anti-Japanese struggles and should be preserved by the Communist Party and the masses it leads. In the anti-Japanese struggle, those struggles are to be and should be stopped, which is not conducive to united anti-Japanese, such as civil war, party hostility, local separatism, and on the one hand feudal political-economic oppression, and on the other, insurgent policies and overly high economic demands detrimental to anti-Japanese. Accordingly, the Central Party proposed: First, to distinguish between the big landlords and capitalists who advocate anti-Japanese but are wavering, and advocate unity but are anti-communist, and the nationalist bourgeoisie, small landlords, enlightened gentlemen, who have less duality. When the Kuomintang launched the first anti-communist climax, what attitude the nationalist bourgeoisie took, whether it was different from the big bourgeoisie, was not verified, through the first anti-communist climax, it proved that the attitude of the nationalist bourgeoisie was indeed different from that of the big landlords and big bourgeoisie. Thus, Mao Zedong made important revisions to the article "Chinese Revolution and the Chinese Communist Party." He wrote that the national bourgeoisie "not only differs from the surrender faction of the big landlords and big bourgeoisie, but also differs from the stubborn faction of the big bourgeoisie, and they are still our better allies. Therefore, it is absolutely necessary to adopt a cautious policy towards the national bourgeoisie."
Secondly, to distinguish between the anti-Japanese pro-Japanese capitalist class and the pro-Japanese British-American big landlord capitalist class. "The pro-Japanese big capitalist (surrender faction) has already surrendered or is preparing to surrender. The European and American capitalist class (stubborn faction) is very shaky though still in the anti-Japanese camp, they are two-faced characters who fight Japan on one hand and are anti-communist on the other, our policy towards the surrender faction of the big bourgeoisie is to treat them as enemies, decisively overthrow them. As for the diehard faction of the big bourgeoisie, we would adopt a two-faced revolutionary policy towards them, namely: on the one hand to unite with them, because they are still anti-Japanese and we should leverage their contradictions with Japanese imperialism, and on the other to fight them decisively, because they are implementing a high-pressure policy against the Communist Party and the people that undermines the anti-Japanese and unity, without struggle, it would cause harm to the anti-Japanese and unity. "
Furthermore, to distinguish between the different factions within the Kuomintang, which is primarily composed of pro-British and American big capitalists. The Kuomintang is a party made up of complex elements, which include the stubborn faction, the middle faction, and the progressive faction. Due to their different positions, interests, various relationships, and historical situations, their attitudes towards anti-Japanese and unification with communists are different and change according to the time and place.



Therefore, we should also make distinctions among them. On July 6, 1940, Mao Zedong pointed out in his report at a cadre meeting: In fact, only a minority in the Kuomintang are truly diehard factions. On April 12 of the same year, the central secretariat and the military commission also pointed out that only a portion of officers at all levels of the central army and the political training system were diehard factions, the majority were moderates, and some were progressives. It is by no means that all of the central army are diehards. On November 16 of the same year, Mao Zedong, Wang Jiaxiang, and Zhu De, and other central leaders again pointed out: It is wrong and harmful for our party and our army to perceive the Whampoa graduates as a general anti-communist group. Under the current serious situation, it is urgent to correct this perception, take any opportunity to unite with Whampoa soldiers, and not antagonize them, but move them with a national-first mindset. On April 23, 1941, the Central Military Commission issued a "Directive on Distinctly Treating Various KMT Army to Achieve Majority", in which the Kuomintang army was divided into four categories: those who have already colluded with Japanese invaders and are resolutely anti-communist (hidden traitors); those who have not colluded with the Japanese but are also resolutely anti-communist (true diehards); those who are neutral during anti-communist periods and sympathetic to us. It pointed out that our policy is: unite with sympathizers, win over neutrals, weaken diehards, eliminate hidden traitors, in order to strive for the majority and insist in resisting Japan till the end.
   
Finally, distinction should be made between two-faced characters among Japanese-collaborating traitors and determined traitors such as Wang Jingwei, Wang Yitang, and Shi Yousan.  Mao Zedong pointed out, "Even among the Japanese-collaborating traitors, there are two-faced characters, and we should also treat them with a two-faced revolutionary policy. That is, on the side that collaborates with the Japanese, we adopt a policy of attack and isolation, and on the side that wavers, we adopt a policy of pull and win. Make a distinction between such two-faced characters and determined traitors, like Wang Jingwei, Wang Yitang, Shi Yousan, etc.” Unity is achieved through struggle and vice versa. Mao Zedong said in explaining the policy of the Anti-Japanese National United Front: "The current policy of the Anti-Japanese National United Front is neither all unity denying struggle, nor all struggle denying unity, but a comprehensive policy combining unity and struggle. Unity and struggle is a fundamental strategic principle of the Chinese Communist Party towards the bourgeoisie, as well as the general policy of the Anti-Japanese National United Front. The success and failure of our party and the revolution are closely related to this principle.

The unity and struggle in the Anti-Japanese National United Front are dialectical relationships: the two are relative, not absolute. Mao Zedong said in his speech at the meeting of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee on September 24, 1938: “In the United Front, unity is the basic principle, which should be implemented in all places and all work, and we can never forget unity and cannot but assist with the principle of struggle, because struggle is for unity, without struggle, we cannot develop and consolidate the United Front, and necessary struggles that suit the situation are needed". He also said in the "Anti-Surrender Outline": "Never forget struggle while uniting, never forget uniting while struggling, neither of the two can be neglected, but unity is the main, 'grind but do not break'”.  Mao Zedong summed up the relationship between unity (unification, solidarity) and struggle as: "Struggle is the means of unity, and unity is the purpose of struggle. Seeking unity through struggle results in the preservation of unity, seeking unity through concession leads to the demise of unity." In July 1940, Mao Zedong provided the following summary in the conclusion of a discussion meeting of senior cadres in Yan'an: 
① We have always emphasized unity, and the same goes for the future-for all anti-Japan factions. 
② We have always emphasized struggle, and the same goes for the future-to deal with all surrender factions. 
③ We emphasize both unity and struggle-to deal with all die-hard factions who are both anti-Japanese and anti-communist.



④ Sometimes emphasizing unity, sometimes emphasizing struggle - it depends on whether the stubborn faction's attitude is primarily about unity or anti-communism. ⑤ Struggle is for unity - to prolong cooperation time. ⑥ No matter which aspect (political, military, cultural) unity is the main theme for the current period, but no matter which aspect, there is also struggle. This is because the anti-communist policy of the Kuomintang's stubborn faction has not changed. The correct handling of the relationship between unity and struggle is a very complex and difficult issue to grasp. Whether this relationship can be handled correctly has become a dividing line between the correct policy and the wrong policy in the history of the Communist Party of China.
During the Anti-Japanese War, the Communist Party of China, having grown from a young party into a mature party in thought and politics, and mastered the art of leadership of Marxism, not only made an in-depth analysis of the national bourgeoisie, especially the big landlords and bourgeoisie, and formulated a strategy of both unity and struggle, but also successfully implemented this strategy in practice. In the Anti-Japanese United Front, the Chinese Communist Party adopted a strategy of both unity and struggle against the big landlords and the bourgeoisie. This not only defended against attacks from the stubborn faction, protected the progressive forces from loss, and ensured their continued development, but also extended their anti-Japanese war time, maintained cooperation between the CCP and them, and avoided a large-scale civil war. Therefore, Mao Zedong said: "If there is no struggle, the progressive forces would be eliminated by the stubborn forces, the united front would no longer exist, the stubborn faction would surrender to the enemy without resistance, and a civil war would erupt." The main reason why the Anti-Japanese National United Front could stick to victory was that the Communist Party of China adhered to the overall policy of both unity and struggle in the United Front. Developing progressive forces, winning over middle forces, and isolating stubborn forces, the United Front is bound to be a coalition of several classes or political groups. Because the interests and positions of the various classes and political groups participating in the United Front are different, they will inevitably be divided into three forces: left, center, and right. Mao Zedong said: "The basic condition for the victory of the Anti-Japanese War is the expansion and consolidation of the Anti-Japanese United Front. To achieve this goal, we must adopt the strategy of developing progressive forces, winning over middle forces, and opposing stubborn forces. This is an inseparable trio, and the means to achieve unity with all anti-Japanese forces is through struggle." Developing progressive forces, winning over middle forces, and isolating stubborn forces is not only a basic strategic principle of the CPC in the Anti-Japanese National United Front but also the political line of the CPC during the Anti-Japanese War.
Firstly, developing progressive forces. At this time, the following seven forces need to be developed: develop the proletariat, the peasant class, and the strength of the urban small bourgeoisie, freely expand the Eighth Route Army and the New Fourth Army, widely create anti-Japanese bases, develop the Communist Party's organization throughout the country, develop nationwide workers, peasants, youths, women, children democratic constitutional movement among the broad masses of the people, this is the central link in the three strategic principles, the basic link.
"Only by gradually developing progressive forces can we prevent the reversal of the situation, prevent surrender and division, and establish an unyielding foundation for victory in the anti-Japanese war."


Next, we strive to win over the moderate forces. "It must be known that Chinese society is a society with a large middle and small ends. The Communist Party, if it cannot win the masses of the middle class and satisfy them according to their situation, cannot solve the China problem." "In China, such moderate forces have a great power and are often the decisive factor in our struggle against the stubborn faction, so we must take a very cautious attitude towards them." The characteristic of the moderate forces is that they are politically wavering. Therefore, under certain conditions, it is possible for us to win them over. To strive for the moderate forces, specifically, is to strive for the following seven types of people: the national bourgeoisie, the enlightened gentry, the miscellaneous military, the moderate faction within the Kuomintang (referring to those factions and individuals who are not very active against communism or adopt a neutral attitude within the Kuomintang), the moderate faction of the Central Army (although the Central Army is the direct line of troops of Chiang Kai-shek, there are some armies or individual troops that are not very active against communism, or adopt a neutral attitude during the anti-Japanese period), the upper-small bourgeoisie and various small parties. We have done a great deal of work to win over these seven types of people during the Anti-Japanese War and achieved significant results, not only engaging most of them in the Anti-Japanese War, but also joining us in the struggle for democracy. 

Finally, we isolate the stubborn forces. The stubborn faction refers to the anti-Japanese faction of the large landlords and large bourgeoisie, i.e. the Chiang Kai-shek group of the Kuomintang. They adopted a two-faced policy during the Anti-Japanese War: advocating anti-Japanese actions while implementing extremely reactionary policies to crush progressive forces. Isolating the stubborn forces, as we say, is applying the two-faced policy of the revolution to the two-faced policy of the stubborn ones: on the one hand, we strive to keep them in the Anti-Japanese United Front for as long as possible; on the other hand, we are determined to struggle against their passive anti-war and active anti-communist policies. This is a policy of fighting for unity, or of both unity and struggle, a combination of attacking and pulling.

How do we struggle against the stubborn faction? Mao Zedong proposed the principles of reason, benefit, and measure. The principle of reason, also known as the principle of self-defense, means if someone does not offend me, I do not offend him, but if someone offends me, I must hit back. The principle of benefit, also known as the victory principle, means that if you do not fight, then stop, but if you do fight, you must win and absolutely cannot conduct a struggle without planning, preparation, or certainty. The measure principle or the truce principle, means to stop the struggle at the right moment. Successful application of these three principles achieves the goal of isolating the stubborn forces. Use contradictions, strive for the majority, oppose the minority, defeat them one by one

Among the imperialist countries, among the various exploiting classes, groups, and factions, they inevitably collude with each other to exploit and oppress the people on one hand; on the other hand, due to different interests among them, they are competing and full of contradictions, especially with the changing revolutionary situation and the increasing development of the people's revolutionary power, their internal contradictions will sharpen. The contradictions within the exploiting class and its continuous expansion are beneficial for the proletarian-led people's revolutionary struggle. Mao Zedong, in his book, "On the Strategy Against Japanese Imperialism," proposed the strategic viewpoint that "we must collect all the fights, gaps, and contradictions in the enemy's camp for use against the main enemy." Later, he summarized it into a sixteen-word strategic guideline of "using contradictions, striving for the majority, opposing the minority, defeating them one by one", and the CCP leadership successfully applied this strategic guideline. First of all, the establishment of the second KMT-CCP cooperation and the formation of the Anti-Japanese National United Front, is the result of the Chinese Communist Party successfully using the contradiction between the British and American faction of the Chinese big bourgeoisie and Japanese imperialism.



In 1956, Mao Zedong explained to foreign friends the experiences of our country's successful democratic revolution. He said, "The comprador bourgeoisie in the past were pro-Britain, pro-America, and pro-Japan. During the Anti-Japanese War, we took advantage of the conflicts between Britain, the US, and Japan, and first fought against the Japanese invaders and the puppet group attached to them. Then, we opposed the invasion of the US and Britain and overthrew their puppet groups. "Secondly, the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) exploited the conflicts between local warlords and the Chiang Kai-shek group, gaining the support of local powers, isolating the Chiang Kai-shek group, and forcing them to join the Anti-Japanese war in cooperation with our party. Next, the CCP, in its struggle against the capitulation and anti-communist activities of the Kuomintang Chiang Kai-shek group, also fully exploited the conflicts among various groups and factions within the Kuomintang, winning the majority, isolating the minority, and achieving victory in the struggle. During the Anti-Japanese War, in many places, the people's revolutionary forces were at a disadvantage compared to the Kuomintang, yet the CCP was able to achieve victory in the anti-reactionary struggle due to the Party's political advantage and appropriate application of strategy. Finally, our party also exploited the contradictions between the national bourgeoisie and the large landlords and the big bourgeoisie, uniting the national bourgeoisie and isolating the large landlords and the big bourgeoisie.

Section Three: The Thought and Policy of the People's Democratic United Front 

I. The Proposal of the Concept of the "People's Democratic United Front"

The period of the Liberation War was the final decisive stage of the Chinese democratic revolution and one of the most spectacular chapters in the history of the Chinese revolution. The Chinese revolutionary united front, formed against the backdrop of the decisive battle between two different destinies and futures of China, has its own characteristics. It is based on the common political foundation of striving for people's democracy and achieving domestic peace; the guidelines and policies are completely independently decided and implemented by the CCP; it has a complete organizational form - the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference; and so on. However, the most prominent feature of the united front during the Liberation War is its large scale and profound foundation, beyond any previous time. Mao Zedong repeatedly mentioned the grand scale and deep foundation of the united front at that time during the Liberation War. In February 1947, he said in a party directive drafted for the Central Committee of the CCP: "This is a very broad united front of the entire nation. Compared with the united front during the Anti-Japanese War, it is not only of the same grand scale but also has a more profound foundation." Here, he already mentioned that the foundation of the united front is more profound than during the Anti-Japanese War. At the end of 1947, based on the development of the practice of the united front, Mao Zedong drew a new conclusion, further stating: "Our united front of the new democratic revolution is now broader and more solid than at any previous time." He specifically explained: "At first glance, it seems that compared with the Anti-Japanese War, our national united front of the revolution has shrunk. But in reality, only in the current period, only after Chiang Kai-shek sold out the national interests to American imperialism and launched a nationwide civil war against the people, only after the crimes of American imperialism and the reactionary rule of Chiang Kai-shek were completely exposed in front of the Chinese people, did our national united front truly expand." Here, Mao Zedong clearly affirmed that the scale and the profound basis of the united front during the Liberation War surpassed any previous time, especially surpassing the Anti-Japanese National United Front - the only comparable united front in terms of scale, scope, and influence. 

The concept of the "People's Democratic United Front" appeared in the later stage of the Liberation War, and was first proposed by the democrat Zhu Xuefan.


In January 1948, Zhu Xuefan, the chairman of the Chinese Labor Association in London, accepted the invitation of the Chinese Communist Party Central Committee. Before leaving for the liberated areas within the country, he issued a declaration to workers around the world. The declaration stated that he fully accepted the claims of the Chinese Communist Party, supported the democratic revolution movement, supported land reform, supported all political forces struggling for democracy, and formed a People's Democratic United Front. On July 1, 1949, the Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party issued a slogan to commemorate the 12th anniversary of the "July 7" Anti-Japanese War, proposing to "consolidate the People's Democratic United Front". This is the earliest mention of the concept of the "People's Democratic United Front" by the Chinese Communist Party.

1. Systematically clarified the main targets of the revolution under the new situation:
The successful united front policy of the Chinese Communist Party has promoted the formation of the People's Democratic United Front thought and strategy with its own characteristics. In order to make the entire party and the people of the whole country further understand the current direction of struggle, Mao Zedong in April 1947 more clearly put the opposition to bureaucratic capitalism in parallel with the opposition to imperialism and feudalism as the three major tasks of the New Democratic Revolution. In December 1947, Mao Zedong, in his report on the current situation and our tasks, analyzed the economic reality of the bureaucratic monopoly capital class accumulating social wealth and monopolizing the national economic lifeline, pointed out: "This monopoly capital, coupled with the state power, becomes the state monopoly capitalism. This monopoly capitalism is closely combined with foreign imperialism, the landlord class in the country and old-style rich peasants, to form a comprador feudal state monopoly capitalism. This is the economic basis of the reactionary regime of Chiang Kai-shek. Therefore, the task of the New Democratic Revolution, in addition to cancelling the privileges of imperialism in China, is domestically to eliminate the exploitation and oppression of the landlord class and the bureaucrat bourgeoisie (big bourgeoisie), to change the comprador feudal productive relations, and to liberate the restrained productive forces. Because the bureaucratic monopoly bourgeoisie controls large state-owned enterprises that control the national economic lifeline and possess a huge amount of social wealth, "it prepares sufficient material conditions for the New Democratic Revolution." Mao Zedong clearly put "confiscating the monopoly capital of Chiang Kai-shek, Soong Tse-ven, Kong Xiangxi, and Chen Lifu as the property of the New Democratic State", along with "confiscating the land of the feudal class as the property of the peasants" and "protecting the national industry and commerce" as the three major economic programs of the New Democratic Revolution. This is Mao Zedong's further development of the tasks and program of the New Democratic Revolution under the new political and economic environment after the victory of the Anti-Japanese War.

During the Anti-Japanese War, Mao Zedong had pointed out: "The big bourgeoisie with a comprador nature has never been the driving force of the Chinese revolution, but the object of the Chinese revolution." But during the Anti-Japanese War, our party did not directly propose the slogans of confiscating bureaucratic capital and eliminating the bureaucratic bourgeoisie. The reason for this was firstly that the bureaucratic bourgeoisie was still within the anti-Japanese camp at the time, and we needed to adopt the unified front strategy of both unity and struggle against them in order to concentrate our forces to deal with the main enemy, Japanese imperialism. Therefore, confiscating bureaucratic capital and eliminating the bureaucratic bourgeoisie could not and should not have been the action program for that period. Secondly, the monopoly groups of big bankers and big compradors gradually formed before the Anti-Japanese War. During the Anti-Japanese War, they were in the stage of expanding their monopoly power into other economic sectors and accelerating capital concentration. After the victory of the Anti-Japanese War, the bureaucratic capital developed to its peak, bringing unparalleled disasters to the Chinese people. Its feudal, comprador, military, and state monopoly reactionary nature was thoroughly exposed before the people. As Mao Zedong pointed out: "Based on the Sino-US Commercial Agreement, the exclusive capital of the United States and Chiang Kai-shek's bureaucratic comprador capital are closely combined together, controlling the country's economic life. As a result, there is extreme inflation, unprecedentedly high prices, increasing bankruptcy of the national industry and commerce, and the worsening of the living conditions of laborers and public service personnel.



This situation forces people of all classes to unite for the struggle to save the dying. "In short, there is a gradual process of exposure to the law of the generation, development, and demise of bureaucratic capital and its reactionary nature. The people of China's understanding and struggle against it also correspondingly go through a gradual process of development. After the People's Liberation Army of China moved into strategic attack in 1947, the Chinese Communist Party timely put forth the slogan of confiscating the bureaucratic capital of the four big families, which naturally instantly received the heartfelt support of the broadest masses of the people across the country. 

Mao Zedong has incisively pointed out: "A revolution led by the proletariat, of the masses of people, against imperialism, feudalism, and bureaucratic capitalism, is the New Democratic Revolution of China, which is the overall line and policy of the Chinese Communist Party at the current historical stage. Considering the concentrated representation of the three big enemies: imperialism, feudalism, and bureaucratic capitalism, as being the reactionary ruling group of Chiang Kai-shek, Mao Zedong has distinctly proposed the political slogan of "toppling Chiang Kai-shek, liberating the whole of China". This slogan encapsulates the entire revolutionary program of the Chinese Communist Party at the time and presents a clear goal of struggle and political direction for the whole Party, army, and the people of the country. It has extremely significant implications for isolating a handful of enemies to the greatest extent and uniting the vast majority of people, especially in winning over the middle-of-the-roaders. 

At different stages of the revolutionary development, Mao Zedong always paid attention to accurately identifying the main enemies of the revolution by considering changes in the objective situation and accordingly setting out specific programs and policies. On this premise, Mao Zedong also always underscored the importance of exploiting the contradictions among factions within the reactionary ruling group to divide and disintegrate the enemy, emphasizing "collecting all the disputes, loopholes, and contradictions within the enemy camp for use against the current main enemy". At the start of the liberation war, Mao Zedong pointed out: to crush Chiang Kai-shek's attack, "we should seek all those within the Nationalist Party's army who might oppose the civil war, and isolate the warmongers". "On one hand, our army should conduct broad and open political propaganda and assaults against the KMT's war army to demoralize its will to fight the civil war. On the other hand, preparations for and organization of rebellions should be initiated from within the KMT army. Embark on the Gao Shuxun campaign so that a large number of Nationalist forces will follow the example of Gao at critical junctures of the war and stand on the people's side." To this end, the central government established specialized departments and assigned specialized cadres to carry out the work of dividing the enemy army. After the People's Liberation Army moved into strategic attack, the continual military failures of Chiang Kai-shek induced an extremely serious crisis in the enemy camp. The contradictions between various factions within the KMT and between Chiang's direct-line troops and local military groups become increasingly sharp. The central committee of the party further pointed out: "When dealing with contradictions within the enemy, if they remain as opposition factions within the reactionary rule and local power factions against Chiang, we can only consider them as indirect allies. But when they change their stance, endorse our action program, and openly oppose Americo-Chiang, we must welcome them, urge them to transform themselves through actions, and prove their direct alliance." Under this correct policy, our party has done a lot of patient, meticulous work to win over the anti-Chiang factions within the KMT, accelerating the disintegration of the enemy camp. Influenced by the Chinese Communist Party, the anti-Chiang factions within the KMT united in January 1948 to establish the Nationalist Party Revolutionary Committee, with Li Jishen, Feng Yuxiang, and others as its leaders, openly declaring their participation in the struggle to overthrow Chiang Kai-shek's treasonous dictatorship. At the same time, the People's Liberation Army, under the favorable conditions of the KMT's settled defeat and the rapid expansion of all contradictions within the enemy, carried out the policy of closely integrating military attack and political persuasion and launched a massive political offensive on all fronts.



This not only prompted many armies of the Kuomintang to announce uprisings or surrender their cities en masse, but also won over General Fu Zuoyi, who was entrusted by Chiang Kai-shek to command over 600,000 troops, to accept peaceful reorganization. During our great advancement of a million soldiers across the Yangtze River and directly into Nanjing, even Zhang Zhizhong, the chief representative sent by the Kuomintang government for negotiations, was won over to the side of the people's revolution, and joined the ranks of the people's democratic united front.

III. Strategies and thoughts on consolidating and expanding the worker-peasant alliance

The feudal landlord class has always been one of the main targets of the Chinese democratic revolution. During the War of Resistance Against Japan, our party, in order to establish a broad united front against Japan, proactively changed the policy of confiscating landlord's land after 1927 to a policy of rental and interest reduction, in order to win over landlords to join the resistance. After the end of the War of Resistance Against Japan, the national contradictions between China and Japan eased, and the contradictions between the peasant masses and the feudal landlord class became increasingly acute. 

In Shanxi, Hebei, Shandong and other liberated areas in central China, there were broad mass movements in which, through struggles against traitors, liquidation, rent reduction, and interest reduction, land was taken directly from landlords, thus achieving "the tiller to own their land". Some collaborators, bullies, and landlord elements fled to the cities, cursing the peasant movement in the liberated areas. Influenced by the reactionaries, some intermediaries were skeptical of the farmers' struggle, and a few people within the party felt that the peasant movement was "overreacting". 

In response to this situation, Mao Zedong and Liu Shaoqi clearly pointed out at the time: "Now, as in the time of the Great Revolution, the peasants reach out for the land, and whether the Communist Party approves, we should have a firm and clear stance.” 

After the outbreak of the full-scale civil war, Chiang Kai-shek's large-scale attack on the liberated areas boosted the reactionary momentum of the landlord class, who pinned their hopes on the victory of the Chiang Kai-shek government. Landlords and bullies who had fled to Chiang's jurisdiction organized "returning home groups" one after another, attacking the liberated areas with Chiang Kai-shek's troops, recklessly counter-attacking the masses of peasants, stubbornly opposing the land reform movement led by our party and at the same time, the rich peasants also adopted a hostile attitude towards land reform. 

In essence, one of the important purposes of the Chiang Kai-shek group's launching of the counter-revolutionary civil war was also to preserve the feudal land system and the feudal privileges of the landlord class in order to maintain their reactionary economic foundation. Therefore, our party convened the National Land Conference from July to September 1947 and formulated the "Outline of Chinese Land Law".



On October 10th, the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China (CPC) solemnly pointed out when announcing this outline: "The land system in China is extremely unreasonable. Generally speaking, the landlords and wealthy peasants, who make up less than 10% of the rural population, own about 70% to 80% of the land and cruelly exploit peasants. However, hired workers, poor peasants, middle peasants, and other people, who account for more than 90% of the rural population, only own about 20% to 30% of the land in total, laboring year-round without sufficient food or clothing. This severe situation is the root cause of our nation being invaded, oppressed, impoverished, and backward, and it is the basic obstacle to the democratization, industrialization, independence, unification, and prosperity of our country." In order to change this severe situation, the "Outline of Chinese Land Law" (hereinafter referred to as the "Outline") developed the revolutionary spirit of the May 4th directives, specifically declaring: "Abolish the land system of feudal and semi-feudal exploitation, and implement the land system where the cultivators have their own fields." The "Outline" explicitly stipulates policies to confiscate all land property of landlords and expropriate excess land property of wealthy peasants, and proposes "to deduct more and supplement less in terms of land quantity, and to deduct fertile and supplement lean" in terms of quality, detailing the methods of distributing land according to the average population in rural areas. In accordance with the provisions of the "Outline of Chinese Land Law," a land reform movement began in the liberated areas to completely destroy the feudal and semi-feudal exploitation system and eliminate the landlord class on an unprecedented large scale.

Since the Central Committee issued the "May 4th Directive", the land reform movement carried out in the liberated areas has been overly lenient towards the wealthy peasants and some landlords, with some regions seldom daring to mobilize the masses or fulfilling the poor peasants' demands for land, thus showing a right-leaning tendency. After the National Land Conference formulated a thorough land policy, the liberated areas overcame this right-oriented trend and vigorously promoted land reform. However, some over-"left" tendencies occurred, such as some areas failing to properly classify class elements, misclassifying the identities of landlords and wealthy peasants, blurring the boundaries between enemies and us; some infringing on the interests of middle peasants, damaging national industries and commerce; some overly emphasizing detaining the assets of landlords and wealthy peasants, using the same method to struggle with wealthy peasants and landlords, and even uniformly adopting the method of "sweeping them away", failing to provide them with a way out, leading to chaotic beatings and killings; and so forth. Faced with this, the CPC Central Committee led by Mao Zedong attached great importance to it, and further elaborated the basic principles of land reform and a series of specific policies around the Central Committee's December meeting in 1947, resolutely rectifying the above-mentioned "left" leaning errors. At the end of November 1947, the CPC Central Committee reissued Mao Zedong's "How to divide the rural classes" and "Decisions on some issues in the land struggle" written in 1933, as the standards for classifying classes and the basis for executing policies. The release and implementation of these two documents corrected the tendency of the "left" leaning policy in the land reform that misclassified some people as landlords and wealthy peasants. At the Central Committee's December meeting, Mao Zedong pointed out: "In order to vigorously and thoroughly proceed with land reform, not only must we organize the most extensive mass peasant associations in rural areas, including hired workers, poor peasants, and middle peasants, and their elected committees, but we must also first organize poor peasant groups, including poor and hired worker masses, and their elected committees, as the legitimate bodies for implementing land reform, and the poor peasant groups should become the leadership backbone of all rural struggles. Our policy is to rely on the poor peasants, consolidate the alliance with middle peasants, and eliminate the feudal and semi-feudal exploitation system of the landlord class and the old-style wealthy peasants. The land and property that the landlords and wealthy peasants should get cannot exceed the peasant masses. However, the so-called 'left'-leaning erroneous policy that was implemented during 1931-1934, namely 'the landlords do not get land, the wealthy peasants get bad land', should not be repeated."



To get more than 90% of people in the countryside to participate in the unified front of land reform, Mao Zedong pointed out two basic principles that must be followed: "First, the demands of the poor and hired peasants must be met. This is the most basic task of land reform. Second, it is necessary to firmly unite the middle peasants and not harm their interests." 

In order to fulfill the strategic task of consolidating the union of middle peasants, Mao Zedong made specific rules for middle peasant policies: "In the process of confiscating the land property of the feudal class and dividing the land, the opinions of the middle peasants must be respected, some needs of the middle peasants (such as allowing some middle peasants to retain a higher amount of land than the average level of the poor peasants) must be taken into account. The active workers in the farming community and the local democratic government must take in middle peasants, do not make mistakes in driving people of middle peasant origin into the rich peasant circles, but also reasonably and fairly make middle peasants bear the burden of land taxes and support the war." 

Due to the implementation of the above two basic principles, the worker and peasant alliance led by the working class (through the Communist Party) has been consolidated and developed as never before, enabling the role of the peasant main force to be fully utilized.

During the land reform movement, the Party Central Committee, led by Mao Zedong, not only focused mainly on relying on poor and hired peasants and uniting middle peasants, but also focused on winning over all classes and strata that could be united. To isolate and attack the most stubborn enemies in the feudal class, Mao Zedong, in line with China's actual feudal relations in rural areas, proposed policies that would create distinctions between landlords and wealthy peasants, large, medium, and small landlords, bullies and non-bullies among landlords and wealthy peasants, and that he would not harm policies for non-feudal forms of exploitation such as landlords and wealthy peasants investing in industry and commerce. In the struggle to overthrow the feudal system, the Central Committee and Mao Zedong made special efforts to win over enlightened gentry who had split from the feudal class. 

The Central Committee, in reasserting its strategic principle of "winning over the majority, opposing the minority, using contradictions, and breaking them down one by one," emphasized that "it is important to understand that the 'majority' should include a minority of enlightened elements in the enemy camp (i.e., enlightened gentry and patriots in the feudal comprador class)." In this regard, Mao Zedong provided a profound explanation: "The enlightened gentry are individual people in the landlord and wealthy peasant class who have democratic tendencies. These people have contradictions not only with bureaucratic capitalism and imperialism but also with feudal landlords and wealthy peasants. During the War of Resistance against Japan and in the difficult period after the war, they gave us considerable help, and when we implemented land reform, they did not impede or oppose it. Therefore, a policy of unity should still be adopted towards them.” 

As China's intellectuals mostly come from landlord and wealthy peasant families, the country's national bourgeoisie mostly has ties with the land, and there are hundreds of thousands of enlightened gentry across the country, if we unreservedly unite all enlightened gentry who support the opposition to America and Chiang Kai-shek, who support democracy (not anti-Communist), and who support land reform, and also educate them in the process, then it will be beneficial for winning over the nation's intellectuals, the national bourgeoisie, the enlightened gentry, and for isolating the main enemy of the Chinese Revolution, the Chiang Kai-shek reactionaries. 

Based on the above-guiding principles, our party consolidated and won over a large number of enlightened gentry and patriots during land reform, making large landlords, bullies, and wealthy rural families in the feudal class extremely isolated. Through our party's unity and education, many representative figures among the enlightened gentry have successively sided with the people's revolution, participating in the struggle against the American and Chiang reactionaries, and playing a certain role in the People's Democratic United Front.


In January 1948, after thorough investigation and research, Ren Bishi, entrusted by the Central Committee of the Party, delivered a speech on "Several Issues in Land Reform", correctly expounding on subjects such as "standards for class division in rural areas", "the need for a solid unity of all middle peasants", "methods of struggle against landlords and rich peasants", "policies for industry and commerce", "issues related to intellectuals and enlightened gentry", and "resolutely opposing random beatings and killings". This important speech by Ren Bishi more specifically clarified the principles and policies of land reform proposed by Mao Zedong and played a positive role in rectifying the "leftist" tendency.

In summary, the Central Committee led by Mao Zedong drew upon the lessons learned from the Land Revolution War, timely correcting the rightist and "leftist" tendencies in the land reform movement since the "May 4th Directive", and formulated policies and guidelines in accordance with the actual situation of the rural areas. The implementation of these policies galvanized the broad mass of poor peasants, solidified the unity of all middle peasants, won over the enlightened gentry and other patriots, and not only did not diminish the ranks of the people's democratic united front against feudalism in the countryside, but further strengthened and expanded it.

As the People's Liberation Army advanced into the regions controlled by the Kuomintang, newly liberated areas increased rapidly. Given that remnants of the enemies in these regions had not been completely eradicated and the consciousness of the masses was generally low, different from the older liberated areas and semi-old liberated areas, Mao Zedong proposed different strategies for implementing land laws in different areas in February 1948. In the older liberated areas, the land issues had been largely resolved and only a part of the land needed to be adjusted, so the focus should be on rectifying the Party's ranks and resolving conflicts between the Party and the masses; in the semi-old liberated areas, the land issue had not yet been thoroughly resolved, so land distribution should be widespread and thorough; in the newly liberated areas, the land law should be implemented in two stages: the first stage should neutralize the rich peasants, attack the landlords, especially large landlords, distribute their land and property, and then enter the second stage to distribute the surplus land and property of the rich peasants. Soon after, based on the actual conditions of the rural work in the newly liberated areas, Mao Zedong made new provisions. He pointed out: "If the land is divided too early, it will be welcomed by only a few courageous individuals, the basic masses will not get their share and will express dissatisfaction. Moreover, the rapid dispersion of social wealth is also detrimental to the army. If the land is distributed too early, the burden of military needs will fall prematurely on peasants, not landlords and rich peasants." Therefore, it is necessary to first widely implement rent reduction and interest alleviation, as well as corresponding social and financial policies, to ensure that "social wealth does not disperse, social order is relatively stable, conducive to concentrating all efforts to eliminate the reactionary Kuomintang". The aforementioned strategic approach proposed by Mao Zedong, facilitated land reform to be carried out in liberated areas of different types, according to the strength of feudal forces, the level of mass consciousness and organization, differentiating, step by step, in stages, thus making our party's land reform policy increasingly complete. In April 1948, Mao Zedong highly encapsulated the basic principles and policies of land reform into the general line of land reform, namely, "relying on poor peasants, uniting middle peasants, eliminating feudal exploitation in stages and differently, and promoting agricultural production". Since then, the large-scale land reform movement has developed healthily along the correct track of this general line. More than a year after the announcement of the "Chinese Land Law Outline", our party has thoroughly solved the land problem in vast areas with a population of more than 100 million. The land of the feudal class was roughly evenly distributed among the rural people, especially the poor and hired peasants, greatly stimulating the revolutionary passion and production enthusiasm of the peasants, the main allies of the proletariat.



In both economic and political terms, the vast number of peasants who had gained emancipation strove to produce, eagerly joined the army, actively supported the front lines, and provided a solid and inexhaustible reserve force for the national liberation war. They played an unprecedentedly significant role, whether in supplying troops, providing for the army, or transporting war supplies. The land reform movement, carried out thoroughly and universally, but also step by step and differently, mobilized the enthusiasm of hundreds of millions of peasants, won all the force that could be won, and provided our party with the fundamental conditions to defeat all enemies, consolidating and expanding the people's democratic united front.

Four, Promoting the Formation and Development of the Second Front

After the outbreak of the all-out civil war, under the heroic fight and firm resistance of the Chinese People's Liberation Army, the KMT army shifted from an all-out attack to a key attack, and the KMT government suffered a heavy blow militarily. At the same time, the KMT government also fell into a severe crisis economically and politically. Economically, the U.S. and Chiang signed a series of treaties and agreements. The American troops rampaged arbitrarily in China and committed wrongdoings. According to incomplete statistics from Shanghai, Nanjing, Beiping, and Tianjin, from August 1945 to the end of 1946, there were at least 3,800 instances of American troops' atrocities, causing over 300 casualties among our troops and civilians, raping more than 300 women, and further colonizing the region ruled by the KMT. KMT extensively plundered the people, recklessly issued banknotes, causing severe inflation, skyrocketing prices, and the people struggled to get by. Politically, the KMT unilaterally convened a divisive National Congress, sabotaged the Nanjing negotiations, and forced the CCP representatives to withdraw from the KMT-controlled area, fully exposing their true face of fake peace. The vast majority of the people and democratic parties became educated from the KMT's perverse behavior, became increasingly dissatisfied with the KMT, and pinned their hopes on the Communist Party of China. Mao Zedong pointed out: "On the basis of the Sino-US commercial agreement, the monopoly capital of the United States and Chiang Kai-shek's bureaucratic comprador capital are closely combined, controlling the country's economic life. The result was extreme inflation, unprecedentedly high prices, the increasing bankruptcy of national industry and commerce, and the worsening livelihood of laboring masses and public servants. This situation forced people from all walks of life to unite and struggle for survival."

The CCP Central Committee correctly analyzed the situation at the time and believed that a new climax of the nationwide people's revolution was about to come. To this end, Mao Zedong drafted a directive for the party central committee on February 1, 1947, stating: "The current situation in various aspects suggests that China's political situation will develop to a new stage. This new stage is the stage of the development of the nationwide anti-imperialist and anti-feudal struggle to the new people's great revolution. Now it is its eve. The task of our party is to struggle for the arrival and success of this climax." On February 28, 1947, Zhou Enlai drafted the "Strategy against the KMT in the White Areas" for the central committee, which was sent to Dong Biwu, Liu Xiao, Qian Ying, Wu Yuzhang, Fang Fang, and others. The directive stated: "The struggle of the masses in the Jiangnan region will inevitably go through some twists and turns, but the overall trend will inevitably continue to rise. Facing the current suppression policy of Jiang, we should expand propaganda, avoid hard collisions, win over middle people, use legal forms, and strive to establish a broad front against treason, civil war, dictatorship, and anti-secret terror based on the struggle for survival."



The directive emphasizes, "In the struggle, we need to link up, and sometimes shift to economic struggle, to mobilize a larger crowd to join. It is also easy to gain a legitimate form. With a broad foundation of economic struggle, it is also easy to link to the anti-espionage and anti-civil war struggle." On May 5, Zhou Enlai drafted another directive for the Central Committee, sending it to Liu Xiao, Liu Changsheng, Qian Ying, and others. In response to the Kuomintang government's fabrication of the so-called CCP underground struggle line program, attempting to suppress the people's movement in the KMT-ruled area with an excuse, the directive states: in the Kuomintang-ruled areas, the party's work policy "is to protect the party and progressive forces, to continue strengthening the people’s movement," and "for this purpose, we need to be firm and brave as well as alert and cautious." We must adhere to the party's principle of mobilizing the masses to carry out anti-American and anti-Chiang policies, conducting "legal and illegal struggles."

The directive stresses: "Work in the city under the Jiang administration, everything should be planned for a long-term existence, to promote mass struggle, carry out a united front, and in this way, can help the liberation area victory, the advent of a new national climax." The people in the Kuomintang-ruled areas, under the specific leadership and guideline of the united front of the Communist Party, started a patriotic and democratic movement against the reactionary rule of the Kuomintang in the cities and rural areas.

The US and Chiang Kai-shek adopted the policy of turning China into a US colony, starting a civil war, and strengthening fascist dictatorial rule, thereby declaring themselves enemies of the people. They put the people of all classes on the line of hunger and death, forcing all the people to unite and struggle against the KMT government. There is no other way out. Mao Zedong pointed out: "The Chinese people of all classes who are oppressed and united by the reactionary policies of the Chiang Kai-shek government, including workers, peasants, urban petite bourgeoisie, national bourgeoisie, enlightened gentry, other patriots, minorities, and overseas Chinese. This is a very wide national united front." On May 30, 1947, Mao Zedong pointed out: "There are already two front lines in China. The war between Chiang Kai-shek's invading army and the People's Liberation Army is the first front line. Now the second front line has appeared, which is the sharp struggle between the great just student movement and Chiang Kai-shek's reactionary government." The second front line is led by the student movement, including all classes of democratic movements under KMT rule and oppression.

The starting point of the second front line was the student protest against American brutality in Peking in December 1946. On the evening of December 24, 1946, Shen Chong, a female student at Peking University, was raped by US troops. After the news came out, it aroused great outrage among the people of Peiping, especially students. The underground party organization believed that this was a good opportunity to launch a mass struggle, and immediately decided: through the Shen Chong incident, to raise the banner of maintaining national dignity, to ignite the national righteous indignation of the masses, and to initiate a protest against American brutality among Peiping students. The party decided to unite a larger group of students and launched a school strike throughout the city. The KMT authorities tried to undermine the student movement, hoping to use "legal solutions" to blur the political nature of the struggle. Aiming at the conspiracy of the US-Chiang reactionaries, the Communist Party organization proposed to adhere to the center slogan of "American troops out of China". This slogan has a clear political nature of struggle, which is easy to unite the masses and expand the patriotic united front.



On December 29th, the underground party school committee of Beiping decided to take to the streets for a procession. On December 30th, students from Beiping marched on the streets, chanting slogans like "American soldiers, get out of China." The movement rapidly expanded nationwide with 500,000 students participating. The movement was aimed directly at the American and Kuomintang reactionary factions, marking a new high in the struggle of the people in the Nationalist-controlled areas and becoming the starting point for the formation of the second front. Thereafter, the Chinese Communist Party's underground organization took the initiative to unite the masses and lead the people in the Kuomintang-controlled areas in numerous anti-American and anti-Kuomintang struggles. The May Fourth Movement of 1947 signified the formation of the second front. After the resistance movement, the Nationalist government intensified its economic reign and political oppression, causing people's struggles to erupt in succession and the patriotic democratic united front continued to expand. In response to this situation, the Shanghai Regional Committee of the CCP made a report to the CPC Central Committee on April 28, 1947, noting that "the mass movement in the Chiang-controlled areas, following the resistance movement, is about to reach another new high which may begin in the month of Chen (May)." The Shanghai Regional Committee decided to initiate mass movements, starting from the continuous development of livelihood struggles and gradually progressing to political opposition against the Kuomintang's "foreign borrowing and domestic war," focusing on "organizing several central movements as the mainstream activities when the backbone of the movement converges." On May 5th, Zhou Enlai drafted a telegram for the CPC Central Committee to Liu Xiao and others, emphasizing the "protection of our party and progressive democratic forces, to continue to strengthen and carry out the people's movement," encouraging mass mobilization and the expansion of the united front in the anti-Kuomintang and anti-American struggles. Following the instructions from the central leadership, the Shanghai Bureau decided that students from universities in the north and south of the Kuomintang-controlled area would initiate various activities commemorating the May Fourth Movement starting from early May 1947. Thus began the prologue to the second front's struggle.

The Shanghai Regional Committee of the CCP believed that Nanjing, being the "capital" of the Kuomintang with significant political influence, was the place to breakthrough, launching an impressive anti-civil war and anti-famine movement that would shock both domestic and international observers. Under the leadership of the Shanghai Bureau, on May 20th, representatives from universities in Shanghai, Hangzhou, Suzhou, and other places went to Nanjing, joining more than six thousand students from Nanjing University to initiate a massive anti-famine and anti-civil war protest. The march faced suppression by the Kuomintang military, police, and secret service; this is known as the May 20th Incident. The movement was notable for two main features: it evolved from economic to political struggles, and from scattered protests, it gradually converged into a unified national movement. The patriotic and democratic student movement received support from the entire nation, which swiftly expanded the anti-American and anti-Kuomintang struggle to over sixty major cities across the country, creating an enormous tide of opposition.

During the struggle, the Communist Party paid great attention to the strategy of the united front, emphasizing mass mobilization, unity among the majority, exploiting the enemy's contradictions, disintegrating reactionary forces, and adhering to the principles of being justifiable, advantageous, and restrained. At that time, within the ruling group of the Kuomintang, there were disagreements on how to handle the student movement. Members of the Kuomintang Legislative Yuan, Shanghai Mayor Wu Guozhen, and some university presidents feared that the Kuomintang military, police, and secret service's brutality would escalate the situation and become unmanageable, advocating for a resolution through mediation or negotiation.



The Shanghai Bureau guided the masses to call for the release of all arrested students, to punish the perpetrators, and to focus their accusations on the persecution by the Kuomintang's military, police, and special forces. At the same time, in order to reduce the persecution by the Kuomintang's military and police, on May 23, Zhou Enlai pointed out in the "Instructions of the CPC Central Committee on Working with the Youth Army and Police in Student Movements" drafted for the Central Committee: "In order to avoid an antagonism with the youth army and police, and to win their sympathy for the student movement, you should immediately work with the soldiers of the youth army and police through various organizations and activists..." At that time, some schools, in accordance with the instructions of the party Central Committee, organized faculty and students to fellowship with the youth army. During a march in Shanghai, when the marchers were blocked by the military and police, they appealed to them, pointing out their own low wages and the need to act conscientiously. As a result, the antagonistic sentiment of the other party was reduced to a certain extent. At the same time, the Shanghai Bureau also clearly pointed out that when the masses were mobilized and the struggle had achieved certain results, it should be stopped at the right time. Active participants were persuaded to abandon excessive demands for indefinite strikes, in order to prevent them from distancing themselves from the vast majority of the masses. Thus, a strategy of temporarily stopping the strike, resuming classes on one hand and struggling on the other, was timely proposed, which won wide sympathy from students and society.

To promote a nationwide student federation and prepare for new battles, the National Student Federation was established in mid-June 1947. The federation issued a call to all students across the country: unite under the slogans of anti-hunger, anti-civil war, and anti-persecution, regardless of party affiliation, faith, and region. Form a solid united front to fight domestic reactionary forces to the end.

The struggle on the second front directly coordinated with the military operations on the front line of the People's Liberation Army. It disrupted the Kuomintang's rear areas, tied down and weakened Chiang Kai-shek's forces, and accelerated the progress of the people's revolution victory. The student movement aroused widespread sympathy in society. Workers, peasants, urban petty bourgeoisie, national bourgeoisie, enlightened gentry, and patriotic overseas Chinese all stood on the side of the Communist Party and actively supported and participated in the patriotic democratic movement. Chiang Kai-shek of the Kuomintang's ferocious face was fully exposed, completely isolated, surrounded by the whole nation, the people's democratic united front is constantly consolidating and expanding, the Chinese people will achieve victory nationwide.

V. A New Form of United Front Organization Under the People's Democratic Dictatorship

As early as the Anti-Japanese War, in view of the long-term nature of the Anti-Japanese War, and in response to the dictatorships of the Kuomintang's "melting together", "limiting", and "anti-communism" propositions, the Chinese Communist Party proposed long-term cooperation between various parties in the Anti-Japanese War while maintaining their independence. In the practice of leading the anti-Japanese base areas, the Chinese Communist Party also established a "three-thirds" government where CPC members, left-wing progressives, middle-of-the-roaders, and others each accounted for one third. After the victory of the Anti-Japanese War, where should China go? What kind of government should be established? Various classes and groups formed political parties and groups to state their opinions and demands. For a time, a multi-party coexistence situation appeared on the political stage of China. After the full-scale outbreak of the War of Liberation, the Communist Party of China regarded dealing correctly with the relationship with various parties as one of the major issues in establishing, consolidating, and developing the people's democratic united front, and put forward the policy of dealing correctly with the relationship with various democratic parties, thus fully forming a multi-party cooperation relationship led by the Communist Party of China, and initially establishing a system of multi-party cooperation and political consultation led by the Communist Party of China.



To correctly handle inter-party relationships, the first step is to scientifically analyze the nature of all parties. Mao Zedong and other Chinese Communists have conducted serious studies on all the democratic parties that were active on the Chinese political stage at the time, scientifically analyzing their organizational components and political tendencies, providing theoretical basis for properly handling the relationship with democratic parties. Zhou Enlai pointed out in his "Opinions on Current Work of Democratic Parties" that although the composition of the democratic parties is relatively complex, ranging from opposition factions within the ruling class to progressive members, they were mainly political representatives of the upper petite bourgeoisie, the national bourgeoisie, and their intellectuals. They opposed the one-party dictatorship of the Kuomintang, and the democratic parties and democrats associated with them were an important force on China's political stage that could not be ignored. Zhou Enlai also conducted an analysis of non-partisan democrats, believing that although non-partisan democrats did not form a party formally, they essentially have partisan traits. Their long-term participation in democratic political movement and strong involvement in fights against imperialism, feudalism, and bureaucrat-capitalism were all inherently partisan. They were simply some democrats that lacked party organization, and thus are non-partisan democrats with partisan tendencies, with political leanings largely in line with those of the various democratic parties.

Based on the analysis of the democratic party and democrats, the Communist Party of China proposed to unite with them during the liberation war period, to collaborate with them in the long term and jointly build New China. At the same time, the leadership position of the proletariat and its party must be held while long-term cooperation is underway, and the shortcomings and errors of the other party should be criticized or fought against. Before the outbreak of the full-scale civil war, the Communist Party actively sought joint action with all democratic parties during the political struggles in negotiations with the Kuomintang. After the outbreak of the full-scale civil war, the Chinese Communist Party formulated and implemented a series of correct policies in order to further cooperate with the democratic party and democrats. Politically, they absorbed a large number of people outside the party to participate in political work and social affairs, and often communicated and coordinated with them on major issues such as land reform, and negotiations between the Communist Party and the Kuomintang. In terms of economy, they firmly implemented policies to protect national industry and commerce, took care of their livelihoods, and were responsible for their safety and health. The Chinese Communist Party also carried out in-depth and meticulous work through extensive contacts and cooperation with democratic parties and democrats, helped them raise their understanding of the essence of American imperialism and the Kuomintang, clarified the trends and directions of the development of the Chinese revolution, and gradually embarked on the path of the New Democracy revolution.

The Chinese Communist Party's policy of cooperation and education with the democratic party was correct and successful. When the People's Liberation Army launched a strategic counterattack and was in an obvious advantage, the call of the Chinese Communist Party to establish a democratic united government received a positive response from democrats from all walks of life. On April 30, 1948, the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China issued a "May Day Labor Day Slogan", calling for "all the national laborers to unite, join with national intellectuals, liberal bourgeoisie, all democratic parties, social sages and other patriots, to consolidate and expand the united front against imperialism, feudalism, bureaucrat-capitalism, and to jointly struggle to overthrow Jiang Jieshi and establish New China." "All democratic parties, people's organizations, and social sages quickly convened a political consultation meeting, discussed and implemented the convocation of the People's Congress, and established a democratic united government." The Chinese Communist Party's call received a positive response from the democratic parties and democrats.



Li Jishen and He Xiangning of the Revolutionary Committee of the Chinese Nationalist Party, Shen Junru and Zhang Bojun of the China Democratic League, Ma Xulun and Wang Shaoao of the China Democratic National Construction Association, Chen Qiyu of the China Public Interest Party, Peng Zemin of the China Peasants and Workers Democratic Party, Li Zhangda of the Chinese People's Federation for Salavtion, Cai Tinggui of the Democratic Promotion Association of the Chinese Nationalist Party, Tan Pingshan of the Alliance of the Three Principles of the People, and Guo Moruo, a non-partisan democrat, jointly telegraphed Mao Zedong in response to the call of "May 1" by the Communist Party of China. They expressed their belief that the May Day slogan "meets the needs of the people's situation" and is in line with their principles. They also pledged to join forces with the Chinese Communist Party to strive for the completion of a great cause. Subsequently, in response to the invitation of the Chinese Communist Party, leaders of various democratic parties and non-partisan democrats entered the liberated areas in batches to prepare for the convening of a new political consultative conference. On January 22, 1949, 55 leaders of various democratic parties and non-partisan democrats who had arrived in the liberated areas, including Li Jishen and Shen Junru, jointly published "Our Views on the Current Situation", expressing their willingness to follow the leadership of the Communist Party of China and "Consider thoroughly", while also recognizing that "there is no possibility of compromise and reconciliation between revolution and counterrevolution", "within the People's Democratic Front, there is absolutely no place for reactionaries to stand, nor can there be so-called middle lines". 
The support and response of various democrats to the "May 1" call not only confirmed the leading position of the Chinese Communist Party in the cooperation of various democratic parties, it also symbolized the initial formation of the multi-party cooperation situation led by the Chinese Communist Party and that the People's Democratic United Front has entered a new historical stage.
Various democrats acknowledging the leadership of the Chinese Communist Party and after entering the liberated areas, the CPC Central Committee further clarified the principles and guidelines for handling relations with the democratic parties. On January 22, 1949, the CPC Central Committee issued "Directions on How to Treat Democrats", which states that the party should thoroughly honestly and sincerely explain political and party policy issues to Democrats, educate and win them over with positivity, provide straight answers on policy issues and handle policy implementation truthfully. The methods used can be based on their suggestions, such as presentations by the heads of various departments of the Communist Party of China, discussions, organized tours, or regular contact and conversations with party members. As for how to treat the local organizations and organizational development issues of various democratic parties and groups, the CPC Central Committee also issued clear instructions. In February 1949, in the "Instructions on How to Treat Local Organizations of Various Democratic Parties and Groups", the CPC Central Committee pointed out that all democratic parties that were established before the "May 1" call of our Central Committee and contributed to the common struggle against imperialism, feudalism, bureaucrat-capitalism, and the reactionary rule of the KMT in the areas liberated by the people's liberation army, should be recognized as having legal status after being proven by the party headquarters and are permitted to conduct activities in the name of the party and expand party members or associates. These principles and guidelines for handling partisan relations laid the foundations for the Communist Party's post-establishment principle of "long-term coexistence, mutual supervision". As the initial formation of a multi-party cooperation situation under the leadership of the Chinese Communist Party requires the establishment of a united front organization to negotiate, handle disagreements among them, etc.



After the call for "quickly convening a political consultative conference" was proposed in the 1948 "May Day" slogan, the Communist Party of China and various democratic parties actively prepared for the convening of the political consultative conference, which gradually evolved into a broad united front organization led by the Communist Party of China, with representatives from various democratic parties, people's organizations, democratic figures from all walks of life, domestic ethnic minorities, and overseas Chinese participating.

The term "Political Consultative Conference" had already existed before the "May Day" call. In January 1946, under the pressure of the national people's demand for peace and democracy, the Kuomintang government convened a political consultative conference, and finally passed five resolutions beneficial to democracy, peace, unity, and solidarity under the consultation efforts of the Communist Party. However, the Kuomintang government quickly tore up the CPPCC resolution and launched a comprehensive civil war. However, the form of democratic consultation of the Political Consultative Conference left a very good impression on the national people. As Mao Zedong pointed out in the opening speech of the first session of the People's Political Consultative Conference: "Our conference is called the Political Consultative Conference because we held a Political Consultative Conference with Chiang Kai-shek's Kuomintang three years ago. The result of that meeting was destroyed by Chiang Kai-shek's Nationalist Party and its accomplices, but it has left an indelible impression on the people.

In order to distinguish from the Political Consultative Conference convened in January 1946, after discussion between the Communist representative and the democratic personage representative in November 1948, it was decided to call the political consultative conference of 1946 the "old CPPCC" and the conference currently being prepared as the "new CPPCC". On September 17, 1949, at the second meeting of the new CPPCC preparatory committee, it was decided to rename the "new political consultative conference" to the "Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference", referred to as the "CPPCC". The lineup of the new CPPCC was very strong, and the determination of the units and the representative quota and list that agreed to participate in the new CPPCC went through many consultations, repeatedly deliberated, and took several months to finalize. The representatives of the new CPPCC were divided into five categories: party representatives, regional representatives, military representatives, group representatives, and special invited representatives. 

The lineup of the new CPPCC has three outstanding features compared to the old CPPCC: First, the representatives are broad, including representatives from various democratic parties, people's organizations, various regions, the People's Liberation Army, ethnic minorities, overseas Chinese and the religious world, fully reflecting the great unity of all ethnic groups, democratic classes and all patriotic democratic forces in the Chinese New Democratic Revolution; at the same time, it includes well-known figures and representative figures who have made contributions to the people's cause in various historical periods of the Chinese national democratic revolution. Representative figures from various revolutionary periods such as the Xinhai Revolution, the Northern Expedition, the May Fourth Movement, the Anti-Japanese War, and the Liberation War have all been included, and even people with a certain reputation in the late Qing Dynasty and the Beiyang government and those who sympathized with the revolution later and did good things for the people have also been included.

Second, the seriousness of political standards. Although the lineup of the new CPPCC is extremely large and includes everything, it is also based on the seriousness of politics and distinguishes between the enemy, us, and friends. According to the regulations of the preparatory committee organization, for those who do not meet or do not fully meet the standards to participate in the new CPPCC, they will not be invited as party or group units, and they will be advised to dissolve or stop activities; while paying attention to the broadness of unity, they will invite these organizations with a history of democratic movement and actual performance in the Liberation War and with certain representative democrats to participate in the new CPPCC or in the united government after their political organizations or groups declare to end.

Third, it ensures the leadership of the Communist Party and reflects the unity and cooperation between the Communist Party and non party people. The leadership of the Communist Party is not simply to overwhelm the minority with the majority, but to sincerely cooperate with democrats with an equal attitude and adopt a method of democratic consultation to reach political consensus. As a party unit, the number of representatives of the Communist Party is equal to the number of representatives of the Min Revolution and the Min Alliance, and if the party members in the representatives of the liberated areas, various regions, and basic mass units such as workers, farmers, youth, and women are added, they will still be the majority.



In this way, the new CPPCC not only reflected the leadership of the proletariat and the dominance of the worker-peasant alliance, but also included a substantial number of non-party figures, emphasizing the breadth of unity. In September 1949, the first session of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) was solemnly held in Beijing. The conference passed the Organizational Law and Common Program of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference. It stipulated that the CPPCC, composed of representatives from the Chinese Communist Party, various democratic parties, people's groups, various regions, People's Liberation Army, various ethnic minorities, overseas Chinese, and other patriotic democrats, is the organizational form of the people's democratic united front. This form of organization will exist for a long time and, before the convening of the universal suffrage-based National People's Congress, performs the powers of the National People's Congress. After the convening of the National People's Congress with universal suffrage, it will propose suggestions to the National People's Congress or the Central People's Government about essential national construction matters and other important measures, playing a consultative, advisory, and promotional role. The Organizational Law of the CPPCC stipulates that the purpose of the CPPCC is to unite all democratic classes and ethnic groups in China through the unity of democratic parties and people's groups, to implement New Democracy, to oppose imperialism, feudalism, and bureaucratic capitalism, to overthrow the reactionary rule of the Kuomintang, to eliminate open and hidden remnants of counter-revolutionary forces, to heal war wounds, to restore and develop the people's economy, culture and education, to consolidate national defense, and to unite all nations and countries in the world that treat us equally to establish and consolidate the independence, democracy, peace, unity, wealth, and strength of the People's Republic of China led by the working class, based on the worker-peasant alliance. The Organizational Law of the CPPCC also stipulates its organizational structure: the National Committee is elected by the plenary session, and local committees are established in central cities, important regions, and provincial capitals, all of which implement high-level democracy.

The common program of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference plays the role of a transitional constitution. Its formulation and approval legally verify the party system and political system of multi-party cooperation led by the Chinese Communist Party. It confirms that the CPPCC is the organization form of the people's democratic united front. This is not only a historical fruit of China's New Democratic Revolution but also an inevitable product of the revolutionary united front led by the Chinese Communist Party, creating a new form of united front organization with Chinese characteristics under the people's democratic dictatorship.

Sixth, the thought of dealing with the relationship between leaders and the led

During the national liberation war, an important reason why the people's democratic united front, led by the working class (through the Chinese Communist Party) and based on the worker-peasant alliance, could be consolidated and expanded unprecedentedly was that the relationship between leaders and the led was properly handled. In January 1948, Mao Zedong profoundly summarized the historical experience of our party in achieving the leadership of the proletariat over the united front, putting forward two conditions that the working class and the Chinese Communist Party must meet to achieve leadership over the led classes, strata, political parties, and people's groups: "(a) Lead the led (allies) to fight resolutely against the common enemy and achieve victory; (b) Provide material benefits to the led, at least not harm their interests, and give them political education at the same time. Without these two conditions or lacking one of them, leadership cannot be achieved." Mao Zedong also specifically pointed out, "The Communist Party must lead the middle peasants to make a resolute struggle against the feudal class with them and achieve victory (eliminate armed forces of the landlords and divide the land of the landlords). If there is no resolute struggle, or if there is a struggle but no victory, the middle peasants will waver. Furthermore, part of the land and property of the landlords must be allocated to the poorer members of the middle peasants, while the interests of the richer middle peasants should not be harmed." At the same time, certain political rights should also be given to the middle peasants, along with education. Similarly, "In the city, the working class and the Communist Party should implement leadership over the middle class, democratic parties, and people's groups oppressed and harmed by reactionary forces in the same way."



This means that, on the one hand, we should strongly guide them to join the ranks of workers, farmers, and the urban petit bourgeois in their struggle against the United States and Jiang, or at least remain neutral; constantly affirm their revolutionary nature with the victories of the people's revolution in various aspects, and overcome their tendencies to compromise or waver. On the other hand, we should propose economic programs and policies aimed at protecting national industry and commerce to ensure that their material interests are not harmed; and educate them to continually enhance their understanding of the New Democratic Revolution's program. In such way, our party has equipped with the basic conditions to lead the national bourgeoisie and their political parties.

Mao Zedong further pointed out: "In Chiang Kai-shek's ruled area, among the upper petite bourgeoisie and middle bourgeoisie, there is a small portion, namely the right-wing members of these classes, who possess reactionary political leanings. They spread illusions on behalf of American imperialism and the reactionary group of Chiang Kai-shek, and they are against the People's Democratic Revolution. When their reactionary tendencies still have influence over the masses, we should expose them to the affected masses, weaken their political influence among the masses, so that the masses can liberate themselves from their influence." However, the historical lessons from 1927 to 1931 tell us that when the right wing of the upper petite bourgeoisie and the middle bourgeoisie echoed the Chiang’s group against the revolution, our party appropriately combatted their reactionary tendencies politically, often wiping them out economically, which once caused serious losses to the revolution. Therefore, Mao Zedong lucidly pointed out in 1947: "Political struggle and economic elimination are two different things, if we mix these two, we will make a mistake." Due to China's economic backwardness, the capitalist economy represented by the upper petite bourgeoisie and middle bourgeoisie must be allowed to exist for a long time even if the revolution emerged all over China. And, according to the division of labor of the national economy, those parts of them that are beneficial to the national economy need to be developed. Therefore, the economic position of the national bourgeoisie represented by the upper petite bourgeoisie and middle bourgeoisie must be handled cautiously, and a policy of protection must be adopted in principle.

Based on the above-mentioned thoughts of Mao Zedong, our party has developed an industry and commerce policy of "developing production, prosperity of the economy, balancing public and private interests, and mutual benefit of labor and capital," to "protect property of industrialists and businessmen, and their legal operations, from being infringed," and be able to develop economically. However, during the implementation of this policy, there are still incidents of undermining the industry and commerce in certain areas, primarily expressed as: one-sided emphasis on workers' immediate welfare in the labor movement, infringing on the interests of the national bourgeoisie; infringing on landlords and wealthy farmers' operated industry and commerce in land reform; exceeding the scope in cracking down economic counter-revolutionaries; striking industrialists and businessmen in tax policy; etc. Mao Zedong pointed out that the organizational levels of the party in leading principles "should prevent beforehand the errors of applying the method of struggle against landlords and wealthy farmers, eliminating feudal forces in the countryside, in cities, and strictly distinguish between eliminating the feudal exploitation of landlords and wealthy farmers and protecting their operated industry and commerce, and strictly distinguish the correct policy of developing production, prosperity of the economy, balancing public and private interests, and mutual benefit of labor and capital from the one-sided, narrow, and actually destruction of industrial and commercial industries, and the harmful so-called worker welfare relief principle". Establish our policy based on these distinctions, and eliminate the doubts of national bourgeoisie about the New Democratic Revolution agenda, causing them to gradually get closer to the political level and policy level required by the current revolutionary struggle, preferably against the same enemy with workers, farmers, urban petite bourgeoisie, or remain neutral. As the People's Revolution nears victory, our party carries out deeper political education to help democratic parties break away from their neutral position and raise them to the level of accepting the New Democratic Revolution agenda.


In summary, after the bureaucratic bourgeoisie represented by the Chiang Kai-shek group broke the united front, the Party Central Committee and Mao Zedong continued to implement the theory and practice of uniting and struggling with the national bourgeoisie, which created favorable conditions for the national bourgeoisie to finally accept the leadership of the working class.
In conclusion, during the period of the National Liberation War, the Party Central Committee, led by Mao Zedong, initiated a land reform movement on an unprecedented scale, further consolidating the worker-peasant alliance. Meanwhile, based on the worker-peasant alliance led by the working class, it united and won over all those who could be united and won over, including not only the national bourgeoisie but also patriots who had split from the ruling group of the Kuomintang and enlightened gentry who had split from the feudal landlord class. This made the people's democratic united front unprecedentedly consolidated and expanded, leaving the Chiang Kai-shek group completely isolated and helpless. In April 1948, our Party proposed to convene a political consultative conference without the participation of reactionaries and to discuss the establishment of a democratic coalition government. The call was warmly responded to by various democratic parties, people's organizations, and non-party democrats. They sent representatives to enter the liberated areas one after another, and worked together with our Party to prepare for the new Political Consultative Conference. In the climax of the strategic victory of the People's Liberation Army, various democratic parties announced their agreement with our Party's policy on industry and commerce and land reform; they recognized that the reactionary rule of the Kuomintang was the root of the counter-revolutionary civil war and the fundamental obstacle to domestic peace and democracy; they pointed out that American imperialism was the enemy of the Chinese people. They issued a joint statement, publicly declaring their abandonment of the middle road and accepting the leadership of the Chinese Communist Party. This is a major victory in our Party's correct handling of relations with the bourgeoisie.
Section One: Armed Struggle is the Main Form of Struggle in China's Democratic Revolution
First, The Proposal and Establishment of the Chinese Communist Party's Thought on Armed Struggle
The doctrine of armed struggle is an important part of the ideology and theory of the Chinese Communist Party and one of the three magic weapons for the victory of the Chinese revolution. The Chinese Communists, based on China's specific environment and conditions, gradually enriched and developed the Marx-Lenin doctrine of armed struggle in the process of revolution.
In the period after the founding of our party, the understanding of the extreme importance of armed struggle was insufficient. As Mao Zedong correctly pointed out when summarizing this experience, "On this point, our party was insufficient in understanding from its establishment in 1921 until its participation in the Northern Expedition in 1926. It did not understand the extreme importance of armed struggle in China at that time, it did not seriously prepare for war and organize the army, it did not pay attention to the study of military strategy and tactics." Of course, this is not to say that all members of the Party were completely ignorant of the importance of armed struggle in the Chinese Revolution. In fact, some Party members had many outstanding views.
Zhou Enlai had a certain understanding of the importance of armed struggle early on. In his article "A Review of Hu Shi's 'Effort'", published on December 15, 1922, during his time in Europe, he pointed out that "A real revolution requires a very strong and organized revolutionary army. Without a revolutionary army, the warlords cannot be defeated." This is the initial thought of seizing power by armed force. In early 1925, Zhou Enlai actively participated in and commanded the Eastern Expedition of the Huangpu student army, crushing the main force of the reactionary warlord Chen Jiongming with armed forces. Afterwards, in his report to the Huangpu student army on "The Political Work of the Army", he emphasized that "The workers and peasants, having been oppressed too much, will inevitably awaken and use armed force to resist the oppressors." He inspired everyone with the example of the victory of the October Revolution, explaining that it was "The workers and peasants used armed force to overthrow the Tsarist nobility of Russia."



"Likewise, the oppressed people of China and their oppressed ethnic minorities, when they become aware of the oppression by imperialists and warlords, will create a force from within themselves to overthrow imperialism and warlords." Clearly, Zhou Enlai made significant contributions to the issue of armed struggle both in theory and practice. 
Deng Zhongxia also said in January 1924: When the revolutionary thoughts and actions of the national masses have reached a fierce and tumultuous stage, military activities should not only not be abolished, but they are one of the important tasks. Xie Daiying also said at the time: Revolution cannot absolutely separate from the means of armed combat. These insights are extremely valuable. 
Especially Qu Qiubai, he has many insightful thoughts on the issue of armed struggle and he is a leader who understood the importance of armed struggle for our Party in the early days. After the May 30th movement in 1925, he discussed the importance of armed struggle in a series of articles he published. He said: "Civilians should have the right to armed self-defense." In October 1925, Qu Qiubai pointed out in response to the anti-Feng war at that time, that: "If the people were to arm themselves and wage an anti-Feng war, this would naturally be the beginning of a national revolution, the advent of a new era in the national revolutionary movement." He saw the armed struggle as a symbol of a new phase of the revolution, without the people's armed struggle, there can be no genuine revolution. This is a significant contribution of Qu Qiubai. He also pointed out the correct attitude of a revolutionary towards armed struggle is: "Not to fear armed riots", but to "actively ally with all forces in conflict with warlords and imperialism and wage a revolutionary war," "prepare for the armed revolutionary war of the masses" to achieve "the establishment of the people's central government." Qu Qiubai has already linked armed struggle with the seizure of power. On the eve of the Northern Expedition, Qu Qiubai’s theory on armed struggle had reached a new height. In addition to repeatedly emphasizing: to counter imperialism’s attack with "war by the revolutionary army and armed uprising by the people," "to wipe out all counter-revolutionary warlords," he particularly highlighted that armed struggle is the main form of struggle in the Chinese revolution. He said: "The central issue of the present revolutionary movement is preparing for a revolutionary war."
Due to the development of the situation, the Party's understanding of the armed struggle on the eve of the Northern Expedition heightened. In February 1926, at a special meeting convened by the Party Central Committee in Beijing, it confirmed that the Party's main current task was to prepare the Guangdong government's Northern Expedition from all aspects, to overthrow the rule of imperialism and warlords with a revolutionary war. In May 1926, the Ye Ting Independent Regiment led by the Party as an advance unit of the Northern Expedition first entered Hunan, setting the stage for the Northern Expedition. To closely coordinate with the progress of the Northern Expedition, in July 1926, the Party held the third expanded executive committee of the Central Committee. The "Resolution on Military Movement" passed at the meeting clearly pointed out: "Our Party is a revolutionary party of the proletariat, always ready to launch armed uprisings. It should participate in the work of the armed struggle in the process of national revolution and foster progressive military forces. At the same time, this work is to enable the Party to gain orderly experience in preparing for armed uprisings. By bringing up the Party-led armed uprising in the important agenda, the meeting shows that the Party's recognition of the importance of armed struggle has made a new leap.



The resolution then reminded the whole party: "Recently, our comrades in the party have paid attention to military movements," which is a significant improvement over the previous "our comrades not paying attention to military movements," but it must be pointed out that this progress is still limited, mainly manifested in "failing to understand the current military responsibilities of our party, and the significance of obtaining organized preparation for the experience of armed uprising."

Under the guidance of the ideology in this resolution, the party led the Shanghai working class to launch three armed uprisings in October 1926 and February-March 1927. The first two uprisings failed under the enemy's frenzied suppression, but the third uprising learned from the failures of the previous two and achieved a brilliant victory under the leadership of Zhou Enlai, Luo Yinong, and Zhao Shiyan, marking an important practice of the party leading armed uprisings. Zhao Shiyan made a high appraisal of this armed uprising of the Shanghai working class in the article "The March Uprising of Shanghai Workers" written in April 1927. He believed: "After the Russian October Revolution, the proletarian revolutionary achievements have added a new historical record for the March uproar of the Shanghai workers. In the history of China's revolution, the meritorious battles of the working class are affirmed through the March uprising of Shanghai workers, which secures the position of the working class in the revolution. The place of the March uprising in the history of the world revolution is written on the first page after the October Revolution. The place of the March uprising in the history of the Chinese revolution defines the nature of the Chinese revolution, ensures the victory of the Chinese revolution, and draws a new chapter in the history of the Chinese revolution." He also stressed that: "The uprising of the proletariat is the most serious lesson in the teachings of Marxism-Leninism." Zhao Shiyan clearly expressed the important idea that violent revolution is one of the basic principles of Marxism-Leninism, which is very creative. In the summer of 1927, the domestic political situation underwent a drastic change, and Chiang Kai-shek launched a counter-revolutionary coup on April 12. In mid to late May, reactionary military officers Xia Douyin and Xu Kexiang launched attacks on the revolution one after another. Faced with serious dangers, Mao Zedong and Cai Hesen proposed many correct emergency measures. Cai Hesen repeatedly suggested to the Central Committee to take resolute counterattacks, proposing that "only by attacking can we deal with attacks, only by uprisings can we deal with uprisings." On June 25, in a letter to the members of the Central Standing Committee, he urgently called out: If we sit here waiting for others to deal with us, it is no different from fish swimming at the bottom of the pot! He demanded that "the Central Committee and the army should immediately check their own strength and make a military plan in case of emergency." However, all correct opinions were rejected by Chen Duxiu, which ultimately led to the failure of the Northern Expedition.

After the failure of the Northern Expedition, our party learned a painful lesson and took a big step forward in understanding armed struggle. The party's "August 7th" meeting in 1927 critiqued Chen Duxiu's right-opportunism mistakes and established the general guidelines for the land revolution and armed resistance against the Kuomintang's reactionary slaughter, which was a decision of epoch-making significance. Around this time, the party led a series of armed uprisings, marking a new stage for the party to create its own armed forces and lead large-scale armed struggles.

II. The Basic Content of the Armed Struggle Theory of the Chinese Communist Party
The central task and highest form of revolution is the armed seizure of power
First, the characteristics of Chinese society determine that the Chinese revolution is armed struggle from the start.
Any social revolution is the result of class struggle under certain historical conditions, and is connected to a specific social-political environment. Its forms of struggle and organization must adapt to the characteristics of this society.


In his article "War and Strategic Issues", Mao Zedong conducted an exhaustive and profound analysis of the differences between capitalist countries and Chinese society, and the differing forms of revolutionary struggle that arise as a result.
In capitalist countries, violent revolution is the ultimate form of struggle under certain historical conditions based on long-term legal struggle. Capitalist countries no longer have feudal systems or oppression from foreign nations, and have established a bourgeois democratic system. The proletariat has a certain freedom of speech, association, and assembly, with the right to organize unions, carry out political and economic strikes, and use parliamentary platforms to advocate for political and economic benefits for the working class. Therefore, as long as there is no fascist war, the task of the proletarian parties is mainly to organize the worker masses to carry out non-violent legal struggles, and, through this, educate workers, gather strength, and overthrow capitalism after a long period of preparation. On the issue of war, Communist parties there oppose their country's imperialist wars. The only war they want is a civil war. "However, this kind of war should not be launched until the bourgeoisie is truly incapacitated, until the majority of the proletariat is determined to arm themselves and wage war, and until the peasant masses are willing to assist the proletariat."

When analyzing the characteristics of China’s political environment, Mao Zedong pointed out that China is different from capitalist countries. China is not a democratic country but a semi-colonial, semi-feudal country. It suffers from feudal suppression internally, lacking a democratic system, and imperialistic oppression externally, lacking national independence. There is no parliament to utilize, no right for workers to organize legal strikes. Moreover, there exist warlord rule states in the country, where both big and small warlords, landlords, and local bullies all have their own armies. The power is determined by the size of one's military, and the proletariat and working people are subjected to bloody repression and slaughter policies. In such a political environment, the task of the Communist Party, "is essentially not to proceed with uprisings and wars through long-term legal battles". The main and almost immediate task is to unite with as many allies as possible, organize armed struggles, and fight against the armed anti-revolution within or outside the country according to the situation, to strive for national and social liberation.
Based on the aforestated differences between China and capitalist countries, when Mao Zedong expounded on the basic principle that "the central task and ultimate form of revolution is to seize power through armed forces", he persistently held on to the view that "in China, the main form of struggle is war, and the main organisational form is the army". 
Secondly, the Chinese Revolution, in any period and under any circumstances, must prioritize armed struggle and persist in solving problems through war. 
At each historical stage of the development of the Chinese Revolution, Mao Zedong consistently emphasized that armed struggle is the primary form of the Chinese revolution and gradually developed a comprehensive theoretical system.
During the period of the Great Revolution, Mao proposed that the Communist Party should have its own independent armed forces and should assist in establishing peasant armed forces. On July 4, 1927, he pointed out at a meeting of the central committee discussing the situation and the party's policy, that peasant self-defense forces must be preserved and, if necessary, they can retreat to the mountains and prepare for waging war. Later, when summarizing the lessons from the failure of the first cooperation between the Nationalist Party and the Communist Party, he pointed out that our party lacked understanding of armed struggle from 1921 to 1926 when it participated in the Northern Expedition. "At the time, we did not understand the extreme importance of armed struggle in China, we did not seriously prepare for war and organize the army, and we did not focus on the research of military strategy and tactics. During the Northern Expedition, we neglected the recruitment of the army and overemphasized the mass movement. As a result, when the Nationalist Party began its reactionary path, all mass movements collapsed instantly."



During the period of the land revolution war, Mao Zedong, in the process of creating revolutionary armed forces and revolutionary bases, addressed for a period of time (mainly before the central organs of the Party moved to the base) the problem of the Party's work center not yet focused on armed struggle. He responded to the loss of faith and misperception of the form of armed struggle from a portion of people within the Party and the Army who doubted "how long the red flag could last". Mao authored a series of works, focusing on the necessity of the farmer-worker armed separatism, its feasibility, and its significant meaning to seize national power. He believed that the land revolution must be combined with armed struggle, and armed struggle must be combined with the establishment of worker-farmer authority and revolutionary bases. "The establishment and development of the Red Army, guerrilla teams, and red zones, is the highest form of peasant struggle under the leadership of the proletariat in semi-colonial China, and the inevitable result of the development of the semi-colonial peasant struggle; undoubtedly, it is the most important factor promoting the national revolutionary climax." This conclusion reinforced the Party's understanding of adhering to armed struggle, shifting the Party's work focus to leading the revolution, playing a decisive role. In 1936, Mao Zedong wrote "On the Strategic Problems of the Chinese Revolutionary War", using the Marxist perspective on war, he summarized the experiences of the land revolution war, systematically expounded on the Communist Party's fundamental views and attitudes towards war, analyzed in-depth the characteristics and laws of the Chinese revolutionary war and the correct guidelines. This further emphasized the importance of the Party studying revolutionary war, leading revolutionary war, and insisting on using revolutionary war to deal with counter-revolutionary war. This is a significant marker of the maturity of our Party's armed struggle theory.

During the Anti-Japanese War period, Mao Zedong pointed out that when facing foreign imperialistic invasion, us uniting all possible forces to carry out a national war does not mean giving up the principle of armed seizure of power, but a step in realizing this principle, and thus part of the armed seizure of power. He brilliantly discussed the relationship between the two major tasks of overthrowing imperialism and feudalism, pointing out that they are interconnected. "If the rule of imperialism is not overthrown, the rule of the feudal landlord class cannot be eliminated, because imperialism is the main supporter of the feudal landlord class. Conversely, because the feudal landlord class is the main social foundation for imperialism ruling China, and peasants are the main force in the Chinese revolution, if we do not help peasants overthrow the feudal landlord class, we cannot form a strong team for the Chinese revolution and overthrow the rule of imperialism." Mao Zedong, on one hand, insists on opposing national surrenderism, and sequentially published a number of brilliant works such as "Against Japanese Aggression: Policy, Methods, and Prospects", "On Protracted War", explaining the theory of comprehensive resistance and protracted war, providing a powerful ideological and theoretical weapon for forming a national war situation and winning the anti-Japanese war. On the other hand, he opposes class surrenderism and adheres to the principle of independence and self-reliance of our Party in the united front, criticizing and overcoming the right-leaning errors committed by representatives like Wang Ming. He pointed out that only by maintaining independence can the original position be maintained, especially to develop new positions. This is the central link to direct the Anti-Japanese National Revolutionary War towards victory. In response to the anti-communist wave initiated by the die-hard faction of the Kuomintang, Mao Zedong proposed the three principles of reason, advantage, and restraint. That is, the first is the principle of self-defense, if others do not offend me, I will not offend others, if others offend me, I will certainly offend others; against the military offensive of the die-hard faction, it must be resolutely, thoroughly, cleanly, all eliminated. The second is the principle of victory, if you don't fight, it's already, if you fight, you must win. The third is the principle of a truce, after repelling the hard-liners for a period of time, we should stop when it's appropriate, thereby ensuring the development and growth of the Chinese People's Liberation Army in the Anti-Japanese War, winning the Anti-Japanese War and preparing a strong force for overthrowing the reactionary rule of the Kuomintang.



As soon as the War of Resistance against Japan ended, on August 13, 1945, Mao Zedong delivered a speech at the Yan'an Cadres Meeting, titled "The Situation After the Victory of the Anti-Japanese War and Our Guidelines." He profoundly analyzed the basic political situation in China after the Anti-Japanese War, pointing out that Chiang Kai-shek intended to seize the fruits of victory of the Anti-Japanese War, launch an anti-people civil war, and inevitably move towards massacring the people nationwide. Chiang Kai-shek was sharpening his knives, and we must also sharpen ours. As Chiang sought to snatch every bit of power and gain every bit of advantage, our policy was to not yield an inch and to contest every inch of ground. Rights gained by the people must not be allowed to be lost easily; they must be defended through struggle. In the subsequent period, there emerged an unprecedented trend towards peace and democracy internationally, and domestically, there appeared certain signs of peaceful coexistence between the Nationalist and Communist parties. Some Communist Party members were too optimistic about the prospects for peace, believing that parliamentary struggle would become the main form of struggle. In response to this tendency, Mao Zedong reiterated that the Chinese revolution must take the path of armed seizure of power, stating: "The principle of the reactionary forces towards the people's democratic forces is to eradicate those that can be eradicated and prepare to eradicate those that cannot be eradicated for the time being. In light of this, the people's democratic forces should adopt the same principle towards the reactionary forces." Before heading to Chongqing for negotiations, Mao once again pointed out to the Party that we must not rely on negotiations, must not hope that the Kuomintang would have a change of heart, and must rely on our own strength. During the Chongqing negotiations, he instructed the entire army to resolutely counterattack the Kuomintang aggression, believing that the more victories we win, the more proactive and secure our negotiations would be. After the Chongqing negotiations, when talking about strategies regarding the reduction of troops, Mao emphasized: "The people's armaments, every gun, every bullet, must be preserved and not given up." After the People's Liberation Army achieved decisive victories in the three major battles, the Nationalist ruling group, with the support and planning of the U.S. Ambassador to China, John Leighton Stuart, launched a peace offensive in an attempt to use peace negotiations to achieve "ruling by dividing the river," so as to buy time to breathe, maintain the remaining reactionary forces, and then wait for an opportunity to make a comeback. In the face of this situation, Mao Zedong issued the great call to "carry the revolution through to the end" to the entire Party, army, and nation, pointing out that the enemy will not eliminate themselves. Whether it is the reactionary forces in China or the imperialist aggression of the United States in China, none will withdraw from the historical stage on their own. We must use revolutionary means to resolve, resolutely and thoroughly and cleanly annihilate all reactionary forces, overthrow the reactionary rule of the Kuomintang nationwide, and establish a republic with a people's democratic dictatorship led by the proletariat and based on an alliance of workers and peasants. The Communist Party of China, guided by Mao Zedong's theory of armed struggle, insisted on making armed struggle the priority at all times and under all circumstances, thereby achieving the victory of the Chinese revolution.

Third, all non-armed organizations and forms of struggle must complement and serve the armed struggle.

While emphasizing that armed struggle is the primary form of the Chinese revolution, Mao Zedong pointed out: "Everything else, such as the organization and struggles of the masses, are extremely important, indispensable, and must not be neglected, but all are for the sake of warfare." He emphasized that this cooperation and service are pervasive throughout the entire process and all aspects of the revolution.

The so-called entire process means that, whether before the outbreak of war or during the war, all of the Party's organizations and forms of struggle must serve the Party and the revolutionary war. Before the outbreak of the war, all organizations and struggles must revolve around preparing for war, mobilizing for war, in order to clear away various obstacles affecting the revolutionary war, mobilizing all forces to participate in the war, such as the nationwide Anti-Japanese Salvation Movement, Anti-Civil War Movement, and the December 9th Student Movement launched by the Party before the Anti-Japanese War. It was these movements that drove the surge of the national patriotic fervor against Japan, leading to the Xi'an Incident and its peaceful resolution.


After the outbreak of war, all organizations and forms of struggle must either directly or indirectly cooperate with revolutionary warfare. For example, during the Anti-Japanese War, movements such as the rectification campaign within the Communist Party and military, the mass production movement in the liberated areas, and the mass movements in the Kuomintang-ruled areas were all undertaken for the victory of the anti-war effort.
The so-called "all-round" means that, regardless of the front or rear, liberated or enemy-occupied areas, cities or rural areas, political-cultural centers or remote areas, the party's organizational work and mass movements within most of China's territory are directly related to armed struggle and can only and should only comply with the requirements of the frontline. Armed struggle is a characteristic and strength of the Chinese revolution.
In the article "On the Prospects for the Chinese Revolution," Stalin pointed out: "In China, it is armed revolution against armed counterrevolution. This is one of the characteristics and advantages of the Chinese revolution." Mao Zedong fully affirmed the correctness of this judgment. In his concluding report at the Sixth Plenary Session of the Sixth Central Committee of the Party in November 1938, he analyzed the common characteristics of the nature and various stages of the Chinese revolution since the Northern Expedition. He pointed out that Stalin's view is perfectly applicable to the actual situation of the Chinese revolution. China's problems cannot be solved without armed struggle, and any revolutionary tasks cannot be accomplished without armed struggle. In his preface to the inaugural issue of the "Communist" in 1939, he brought forward armed struggle and the united front as two basic characteristics of the Chinese revolution, and described armed struggle, united front, and party-building as the three magic weapons of the Chinese revolution. He further emphasized that the primary form of the Chinese revolution is armed struggle.
Firstly, the nature and tasks of the Chinese revolution are closely related to armed struggle.
When analyzing the characteristics of the Chinese revolution, Mao Zedong pointed out: "Because China is a semi-colonial, semi-feudal country with an unbalanced development in various aspects such as politics, economy, and culture, and it is a country where the semi-feudal economy dominates and the land is vast, it not only establishes that the nature of the current stage of the Chinese revolution is of the bourgeois-democratic character and the main objects of the revolution are imperialism and feudalism, and the basic forces of revolution are the proletariat, the peasant class and the urban petty bourgeoisie, and, to a certain stage and to a certain extent, the participation of the national bourgeoisie, but it also establishes that the main form of struggle in the Chinese revolution is armed struggle." He believes that armed revolution against armed counterrevolution, a characteristic of semi-colonial China, is not found in the revolutionary history led by the Communist Party in any capitalist country.
The enemies of the Chinese revolution, that is, the objects of the Chinese revolution - feudalism, imperialism, and bureaucratic comprador capitalism - all have powerful counter-revolutionary armaments and rely on force to rule and reach their political goals with counter-revolutionary wars. The proletariat and the broad oppressed and exploited laboring masses in order to achieve liberation, to overthrow these well-armed enemies, must also engage in armed struggle. From the birth of the Chinese Communist Party to the establishment of the People's Republic of China, the Chinese revolution has gone through four historical stages, namely the Northern Expedition, the Land Revolution War, the Anti-Japanese War and the Liberation War. The objects of these wars are all armed counterrevolution, and the main participants in the wars are the armed revolutionary people. "The only difference is that either it is a civil war or a national war; or it is a war conducted solely by the Communist Party or a war conducted jointly by the Nationalist and Communist Parties...... However, they are all armed revolutions against armed counterrevolution, all revolutionary wars, and they all reflect the characteristics and strengths of the Chinese revolution." The history of the Chinese revolution fully proves that: without armed struggle in China, there would be no position for the proletariat, no position for the people, no position for the Communist Party, and no victory for the revolution.
Secondly, the growth and development of the Chinese Communist Party are linked to armed struggle.


A notable distinction between the Communist Party of China (CPC) and proletarian parties in capitalist countries is that the CPC developed amidst armed struggle, while proletarian parties in capitalist countries grew through lengthy legal struggles. Armed uprisings result from the growth of proletarian parties in capitalist countries, they are not the means or reason for the party's growth. The CPC, however, was different. Before the CPC came to power, its history was essentially one of armed struggle. Mao Zedong clearly stated:

"Our party's development, consolidation, and Bolshevization took place in the course of revolutionary war. Without armed struggles, there would be no Communist Party today."

During the period of the great revolution, even though our Party had started to recognize the importance of armed struggle, it hadn't fully understood its significance. We hadn't realized that armed struggle was the primary form of conflict in the Chinese revolution, and we hadn't concentrated on building revolutionary armed forces. As a result, when Chiang Kai-shek betrayed the revolution, a large number of communists were brutally killed, seriously impairing the party's construction and its cause. During the agrarian revolutionary war, our Party had established independent armed units, created revolutionary bases of armed separatism, and significantly expanded the party's forces. The party explicitly promoted the mission of using the army to aid local party development. However, due to Wang Ming and Li Lisan's lack of understanding of the characteristics and laws of Chinese armed struggle, they committed "leftist" errors, which resulted in serious losses to our party's cause. The Zunyi Conference established Mao Zedong's leadership of the party and the Red Army. The entire party learned the art of commanding warfare, thus enabling the party's construction and force to be revived.

In the Anti-Japanese War, our Party had gained a deep understanding of armed struggle. With the development of the Eighth Route Army and the New Fourth Army led by the Party, the Party’s construction had undergone unprecedented development. As Mao Zedong pointed out: "A party can indeed be formed with guns. The Eighth Route Army in North China created a large party." "The Party's organization has stepped out of its small circle and become a national party. …… The Party's influence among the people of the whole country has further expanded. " In the War of Liberation, our understanding of the laws of armed struggle and our ability to control revolutionary warfare had reached a new stage. The number of the People's Liberation Army grew rapidly and its combat effectiveness improved greatly, eventually overthrowing the rule of feudalism, imperialism, and bureaucrat capitalism in mainland China, establishing the People's Republic of China, and the Communist Party of China becoming the ruling party that leads the country. Therefore, it can be said that our party's successes and setbacks, advances and retreats, are closely linked to armed struggle; our party's political line and its construction are also closely linked to armed struggle. Without armed struggle, without revolutionary war, "we cannot understand our political line, nor can we understand our Party’s construction. An important part of our political line is armed struggle."

Thirdly, the vast Chinese populace’s understanding and participation in the Chinese revolution are closely tied to armed struggle.

Any social revolution is based on the people’s full understanding and active participation. The way the people acquire this understanding and participation is a significant indication of the revolution’s characteristics, breadth, and depth. In the proletarian revolutionary struggle in capitalist countries, legal, nonviolent mass movements (primarily workers’ movements) are both the basic path to raising the class consciousness of the working masses and their main way of participating in revolutionary struggle. Armed struggle only happens when this legal struggle—the mass movement—reaches its broadest and deepest extent on a societal level.


In China, the masses have no democratic rights in politics, and 90% of the population are farmers living in a closed, scattered, and small-scale production state. Mobilizing and organizing the vast majority of the people in a legal and peaceful struggle to join the ranks of the revolution is impossible. In the Chinese Revolution, the people's understanding and participation in the revolution are primarily linked with armed struggle.

On the one hand, because the armed struggle is the main form of struggle in the Chinese Revolution, the people's mobilization for revolution is in fact the mobilization for war, and people's understanding of the revolution is initially linked with the violent means of the revolution. On the other hand, although the propaganda and mobilization work of the Chinese revolution is multi-channel and multi-faceted, it is mainly conducted through the army.

Mao Zedong always regarded the propaganda team (work team) as an important task of the People's Army. The vast majority of farmers in rural China get most of their understanding of the revolution from the Red Army, the Eighth Route Army, the New Fourth Army and the People's Liberation Army. Therefore, the degree of understanding and participation of the people in the revolution has always been directly proportional to the progress of the revolutionary war. When the revolutionary war advances and wins in a certain area, the people in that area will definitely be quickly mobilized and organized.

Mao Zedong compared the 25,000-mile Long March of the Red First Front Army to a propaganda team and a sowing machine in this sense. It is in the process of armed struggle that the masses realize their own interests, see their great power, understand that only the Communist Party can lead them to victory in the revolution, and thus bravely and actively engage in the revolutionary struggle. It was also the practice of revolutionary armed struggle that educated, tempered, and ultimately liberated the people. In essence, China's armed struggle is a peasant war led by the proletariat.

First, China is a country with farmers as the main population, accounting for 80% of the national population. Whether in terms of manpower or material resources, farmers are the most widespread and deep-rooted source of power for China's armed struggle. Farmers are the source of China's army, and soldiers are farmers in military uniforms.

Second, China's farmers are heavily oppressed by imperialism, feudalism and bureaucratic capitalism, without political rights, and economically distressed. They live in dire straits and therefore have a strong desire for revolution. They are the most reliable allies of the proletariat and the main force of the Chinese revolution.

Third, China is a country with a long history and glorious tradition of peasant uprisings and peasant wars. The Chinese Communist Party has summarized the experience and lessons of peasant revolutions in past generations, inherited and carried forward the glorious tradition of past peasant wars, and combined Marxist-Leninist doctrines concerning violent revolution with China's current reality and history, resulting in a new type of peasant revolutionary war with Chinese characteristics. "It's not to say that other forms of struggle can be abandoned, on the contrary. Without various forms of struggle outside of armed struggle to cooperate, armed struggle cannot succeed." However, other forms of struggle are for war and serve armed struggle. All organizations and struggles before the outbreak of war are for preparing for war.


Armed struggle and other forms of struggle are unified; armed struggle cannot be separated from other forms of struggle, and other forms of struggle must serve the armed struggle. Only by correctly understanding and dealing with the relationship between armed struggle and the struggles of workers, farmers, youth, women, the economic front, the counter-espionage front, and the ideological front can we facilitate the victory of the Chinese revolutionary war.

Section 2 The Military Dialectics Thought of the Communist Party of China

1. Establishing the Proletariat's View of War

Zhu De pointed out: "Comrade Mao Zedong systematically studied the laws of the Chinese revolutionary war. Particularly important is that Comrade Mao Zedong, in his military works, emphasized the theoretical foundation and methodology of Marxist-Leninist military science, that is, military dialectics." During the Agrarian Revolutionary War, the "leftist" adventurers caused disastrous consequences for the Chinese revolutionary war by studying and guiding the war in a dogmatic way. This situation prompted Chinese Communists represented by Mao Zedong to emphatically study the methodology of war in order to unify the military thinking of the entire party from a world view perspective. In 1936, Mao Zedong gave a lecture called "Military Dialectics" at the Shaanbei Red Army University. Most of the content of this lecture is included in the article "Strategic Problems in the Chinese Revolutionary War". Later, in works such as "On Protracted War", he discussed a series of important thoughts on military dialectics.

What is war?

The Chinese Communist Party views war from the perspective of class struggle. It is argued that all wars in human history recorded in writing originate from the emergence of private ownership and the struggle between classes. Mao Zedong studied the peasant wars in Chinese history and said: "The brutal economic exploitation and political oppression of peasants by the landlord class force peasants to rise up repeatedly to resist the rule of the landlord class... In Chinese feudal society, only this kind of peasant class struggle, peasant uprising and peasant war is the true driving force of historical development." He also looked at the national struggles of the world and said, "National struggle, in the final analysis, is a class struggle problem. In America, those who oppress black people are only the reactionary rule groups of the white race. They cannot represent the majority of workers, peasants, revolutionary intellectuals and other enlightened people within the white race." These are all adherents of the class struggle view. He also said: "Because of the emergence of the class, human life has been filled with wars for thousands of years. Every nation does not know how many wars they have fought, either within the ethnic group or between ethnic groups. By the imperialist era of capitalist society, wars were fought particularly widely and cruelly." It can be seen that war is a social phenomenon of class struggle. The forms of struggle between different classes in human class society are varied, including economic, ideological, cultural, diplomatic, etc. For the oppressed people and nations, the central task and highest form of the revolution is to seize political power through arms, and the war solves problems.


When economic, ideological, cultural, diplomatic, and other peaceful forms of struggle fail to resolve conflicts, recourse to force becomes inevitable, and war is used to address the issues. Thus, war has become the ultimate form for resolving class struggles, and this is an inevitable law. Mao Zedong profoundly revealed this law, asserting, "War—a form of struggle that has been ongoing since the existence of private property and classes, for resolving contradictions during certain developmental stages between classes, nations, states, and political groups—is the highest form of struggle." This is entirely scientific, accurately revealing the origins and nature of war, and clarifying that war is not a phenomenon above classes, but a deeply class-characterized social phenomenon.

The class nature of war is prominently reflected in the close relationship between war and politics. At the Gutian conference resolution, Mao Zedong criticized the erroneous concept of a purely military viewpoint and elucidated the relationship between the military and politics. In the article "On Protracted War," he further discussed the relationship between war and politics, while Lenin affirmed Clausewitz’s statement that war is the continuation of politics by other means. Accordingly, Mao Zedong emphasized: War is politics, and the act of war itself is political in nature. The occurrence and development of any war are closely related to the social politics that generate it; war is always conducted for specific political purposes. For example, China's War of Resistance Against Japan was fought to achieve the political goal of expelling Japanese imperialism and building a new China of equality and freedom and was closely tied to the consolidation and development of the united front against Japan. In summary, war is never detached from politics; it is subservient to and serves politics.

However, war is not equal to general politics; it is politics of bloodshed, a continuation of politics by special means. When political development reaches a certain stage and cannot progress as before, war breaks out to remove obstacles to political development. For instance, China's independent and semi-independent status was an obstacle to the political development of Japanese aggression. To remove this barrier, Japan launched the war of invasion against China. Similarly, Japanese aggression was a hindrance to the development of China's democratic revolution. To remove this barrier, the Chinese people initiated the War of Resistance Against Japan. Once Japan was expelled from China, the resistance war concluded. Thus, war and politics are essentially interconnected, both manifestations of class struggle, but there are differences between them. As Mao Zedong said, "Politics is war without bloodshed, while war is politics with bloodshed." The specificity of war gives rise to special organizations and methods for war, and the laws of war differ from the general laws of political struggle. Hence, the viewpoint that undervalues the military and neglects the study of war is also mistaken. Regarding the factors for victory in war, Mao Zedong's military thought is based on the principle that war is the highest form of class struggle and politics' continuation, considers the nature of war and its political foundations as the primary factors for victory. In 1946, Chiang Kai-shek, relying on his military forces bolstered by American aid, launched a comprehensive attack on the liberated areas. At that time, Chiang Kai-shek’s military advantage was just a temporary phenomenon and factor; US imperialist aid also played only a temporary role; while the anti-people nature of Chiang Kai-shek's war and the orientation of people’s hearts were factors that constantly played a role. In this respect, the People's Liberation Army had the advantage. The patriotic, righteous, and revolutionary nature of the People’s Liberation Army's war was bound to win the support of the entire nation.


This is the political foundation for defeating Chiang Kai-shek.
However, war is a competition of material power. The outcome of a war, in addition to being determined by its political basis, is mainly decided by military, economic, scientific, technological, and geographical conditions. All these factors are material conditions that cannot be ignored by the military strategists. They can't attempt to win a war outside the range of what these material conditions allow. Therefore, it is necessary to strive in creating conditions such as military, economic, scientific and technological, and natural environment that are advantageous to us and disadvantageous to the enemy, in order to lay the foundation for winning the war. Under certain material conditions, subjective leadership becomes the decisive factor in winning the war. The stage for military strategists is built on objective material conditions, yet with this stage, they can direct many powerful and magnificent dramas, using flexible and agile strategies and tactics to defeat the enemy and win the war.

Mao Zedong also pointed out: Weapons are an important factor in war, and China's weaponry is relatively backward, which is a major defect. There should be a way to improve it. However, weapons are not the decisive factor; the decisive factor is people, not things. In other words, among the two factors of people and weapons, people are in the first place, major, and play a guiding role. The comparison of strength, not only refers to military and economic strength, but also refers to human resources and public sentiment. Military and economic power are created and mastered by people. The practice of China's revolutionary war shows that the support of the people and the bravery and wisdom of the people and the army are decisive factors that often affect the outcome of the war. The revolutionary war in China, with inferior equipped weapons, defeated the enemy who had superior equipped weapons, mainly relying on the mobilization, arming, and fighting the people's war. This is the essence of Mao Zedong's military ideology of winning against the enemy. The way to eliminate the war

War is a unique phenomenon in class societies, when the class and the state are eliminated in human societies, war will also be eliminated, and the human society will enter an era of permanent peace. How can this goal be achieved? Mao Zedong pointed out: There is only one method, to eliminate war through war, to eliminate counter-revolutionary war using revolutionary war, and to eliminate unjust war using just war. Lenin once said: "The nature of war (counter-revolutionary or revolutionary) does not depend on who attacks, and 'enemies' are inside whose borders, but depends on which class is conducting the war, and the war is a continuation of what kind of politics." Based on the different class nature and political purposes of the war, historical wars can be divided into two major categories: just wars and unjust wars. Mao Zedong pointed out that a just war is an antidote, a bridge pushing world history into a new era, and without it, the leap in social development could not be realized; an unjust war hinders social development and progress. Therefore, Communists can neither simply support all wars nor simply oppose all wars, but should distinguish the nature of wars, support and participate in just wars, oppose the unjust wars. The bourgeoisie peacemakers, not distinguishing the justice and injustice of the war, oppose all wars; do not explore the social roots of war, unconditionally beg for peace from imperialism, they think that universal peace and lasting peace can be achieved under the rule of imperialism, this is completely unrealistic fantasy.


History has proven that within a country or globally, the eradication of all wars can only be achieved through the armed struggle of people from various countries, overthrowing imperialism and all exploitative systems, and establishing socialist and communist systems. As Mao Zedong said, "We are advocates of the abolition of war, we do not want war; but war can only be abolished through war, and in order to get rid of the gun, one must pick up the gun." We study the laws of war and wage revolutionary wars, entirely because we wish to eliminate all wars. This is the Communist Party's fundamental stance and attitude towards war. Economic situation is the material basis for war, and war cannot be separated from the economy, the economy is the material basis for war. Mao Zedong said: "War is not only a military and political competition but also an economic competition." "If economic construction is not carried out, the material conditions for the revolutionary war cannot be guaranteed." The Chinese Communist Party has always considered economic factors as a necessary condition for defeating the enemy during the leadership of the Chinese revolutionary war. 

Why was it possible for a small or several small red power regions to exist for a long time within a country and surrounded by the encirclement of white regimes during the initial period of the revolutionary war led by the Communist Party of China? Why did the revolutionary war promote the arrival of the climax of the Chinese revolution? Mao Zedong analyzed the unbalanced political and economic development in China at that time—the coexistence of weak capitalist economy and severe semi-feudal economy, several modern-style industrial and commercial cities and stagnant vast rural areas, several millions of industrial workers and tens of millions of farmers and handicraft workers under the dominance of the old system, the large warlords managing the central government and the small warlords managing each province, the reactionary armies affiliated to Chiang Kai-shek's so-called central army and the so-called miscellaneous armies affiliated to each provincial warlord, the existence of several railways, navigation routes, automobile routes and a single wheelbarrow route, only walking routes and walking paths that are not easy to walk. 

Based on such unbalanced economic and political development, there exists and develops contradictions of imperialist powers vying for China, contradictions between various military factions within China, many contradictions formed by the heavy taxes imposed by the reactionary government on workers, farmers, national industrial and commercial burdens, sharp contradictions between workers, peasants, intellectuals, urban poor and even soldiers of the reactionary army who are exploited and oppressed and reactionary rulers, landlords, and capitalists etc., just like the country is full of dry wood, which will soon turn into a fierce fire. This economic condition is the most fundamental reason for the existence and development of the Chinese revolutionary war at that time. Mao Zedong's military thought of analyzing the causes of war from an economic perspective is scientific and has guiding significance for any war. Why are there wars between countries of different nature or the same? As long as it is analyzed from an economic perspective, the main reasons are not difficult to find. 

The economy is the material basis for war. In China, a vast but poor and backward land, a protracted revolutionary war lasted 22 years and is due to active economic construction and development of productive forces and adjustment of production relations amid the war. Mao Zedong's military thought made an important contribution to the theory of the relationship between war and economy. Mao Zedong wrote many works, explaining the importance of the economy to war in different historical periods and setting the direction for economic work at the time.

He argued that war should be the focus during wartime, but economic construction is also a "great class struggle". Economic construction must revolve around war; cancelling economic construction is tantamount to weakening war. The party must represent the interests of the vast majority of peasants and workers, help them develop production, implement policies of rent and interest reduction, land reform, appropriately increase wages, give the masses tangible material benefits, stimulate their enthusiasm to support and participate in the revolutionary war, and oppose enemy attacks. Otherwise, the masses cannot distinguish between the Kuomintang and the Communist Party, which would create a situation that is unfavorable to us; having a lean and efficient military is an important policy to overcome difficulties. It makes our war apparatus suitable for wartime situations, we will become even stronger, not only will not be defeated by the enemy, but will eventually defeat the enemy. Just like Sun Wukong turning into a tiny insect and tunneling into the heart of Princess Iron Fan, defeating the colossal invader; rent reduction and production are two major tasks for defending the liberated areas. Whether the two major tasks of rent reduction and production can be completed will ultimately determine the outcome of the political and military struggles in the liberated areas, etc. These claims have been confirmed by war practice and are scientifically correct. As for peacetime, what is the relationship between economic construction and national defense construction? Mao Zedong said: "National defense is indispensable... The reliable method is to reduce military and political expenses to an appropriate proportion and increase economic construction expenses. Only when economic construction develops more quickly can national defense construction make greater progress." "Do you really want, really want atomic bombs, or do you just have a bit of desire and don't really want them? If yoU really want, really want, you should reduce the proportion of military and political expenses and increase economic construction. If you don't really want, really want, you should still go with the old charter." We should strengthen our national defense, therefore, we must first strengthen economic construction. This is a rule-based understanding of the relationship between economy and national defense in peacetime, and it is also an important guideline for national defense construction.

2. Understanding and Applying the Laws of War Realistically

War is an inevitable physical movement that can be understood. Starting from reality and aligning the subjective with the objective is a basic requirement of dialectical materialism. Mao Zedong applied dialectical materialism in military affairs and always believed that the war, like other social phenomena, is an inevitable physical movement with internal contradictions and inherent objective laws not dependent on human will. To study and guide warfare, we must start from reality and understand and apply the laws of warfare realistically - these are the fundamental characteristics and requirements of military practices. As for the question of whether wars and the laws of war can be understood by people, bourgeois military experts often exaggerate the unpredictability and uncertainty of war from an idealistic perspective and consider war as something elusive, attributing the outcome of wars to chance or "the will of God". This is the agnosticism of war issues. Mao Zedong, based on the principles of dialectical materialism and combined with the practical experience of China's revolutionary war, thoroughly denied the agnostic theory of war. He pointed out that although warfare has a greater degree of fluidity, there is relative stability in each specific phase within the fluid entirety of a long war. War's uncertainty also follows the same pattern. As both sides of the battle are armed living beings that keep secrets from each other and even create illusions to deceive the opponent, this leads to the characteristics of war's uncertainty. However, this does not negate the relative certainty of war...


One aspect of me is quite certain, while the other side of the enemy isn't very certain, but still have connections that can be found, clues that can be observed, and a series of past and present phenomena available for contemplation, which constitutes the so-called certain degree of relative certainty. In short, although war is greatly influenced by randomness, behind this randomness lies inevitability. People can see through the phenomena to perceive its underlying essence, comprehend and apply the laws of war through the manifestations of randomness. A comprehensive analysis of both enemy and our reality is crucial to mastering the laws guiding warfare.

How do we understand the laws of war? Mao Zedong, discussing "how to study warfare," pointed out: "There is a method to learn. One should use this method while learning and applying it. What is the method? That is to get a good understanding of all aspects of both the enemy and us, to identify the patterns of their actions, and to apply these patterns to our own actions." That is to say, guiding the war must follow the laws of war, and to understand these laws, we must conduct an objective, comprehensive analysis and comparison of all aspects of both the opposing sides, refine through the complex phenomena, and ponder over the essence. This is the fundamental approach to resolving the contradictions of subjective and objective factors in war. Because war is a bilateral activity of opposing parties, a competition of political, economic, military, geographical, subjective guiding ability, and other forces, the laws of war would come from these objective realities and inherent connections. Therefore, studying war must take both parties' subjective and objective conditions into account. Only by comprehensively analyzing both sides' subjective and objective conditions can we correctly understand the full picture of war and discover the guiding laws of war. Any one-sided and isolated emphasis on one point while ignoring others will not lead to a correct understanding of war and its laws. Mao Zedong said: “There are people who are clear on knowing ourselves but ignorant of knowing the enemy, and others who are clear on knowing the enemy but ignorant of knowing ourselves. Neither are able to solve the problem of learning and applying the laws of war". He emphasized the need to remember Sun Tzu's famous saying, "Knowing the enemy and knowing ourselves, in a hundred battles we will never be in peril". Historical experience has proven that Mao Zedong's remarks are completely correct. During the Second Domestic Revolutionary War, "left" adventurists or right opportunists either only saw the temporary victory of the Red Army and the temporary failure of the enemy, or only saw the strength of the enemy and the weakness of the Red Army, resulting in the mistakes of "left" adventurism or escapism. The proponent of the theory of national extinction and speedy victory during the anti-Japanese period did not comprehensively and objectively assess the situation of both the enemy and us. Those who believed in the theory of national extinction only see the enemy being strong and we are weak; those who believed in speedy victory only see our progress, the enemy's retreat, our many aids and the enemy's few aids, and denied the enemy's strength and our weakness. In contrast, Mao Zedong always comprehensively analyzed and compared the conditions of both the enemy and us. He not only saw the favourable conditions, but also the unfavourable conditions. He not only saw the domestic conditions, but also the international conditions. He not only looked at the present, but also at the developments, drawing out the fundamental laws of war from it. During the Land Revolution War, he comprehensively analyzed the condition of both the enemy and us, identified the four fundamental characteristics of the Chinese revolutionary war, revealed the fundamental laws governing the development of the Chinese revolutionary war, and formulated the strategies and tactics of the Chinese revolutionary war. During the Anti-Japanese War period, he also comprehensively analyzed the situation of both China and Japan, identified the four contradictions in the comparison of strength between China and Japan, and based on this, proved the fundamental law governing the development of the Anti-Japanese War, and formulated the strategic policy and strategic tactics of protracted war. To comprehensively and deeply understand the conditions of both the enemy and us, Mao Zedong systematically elaborated on the importance of understanding the dialectical development process of warfare and the importance of research and investigation. Mao Zedong applied the principles of dialectical materialism to the military, pointing out that the understanding process of commanders in each war or campaign includes two stages, namely the stage from perceptual knowledge to rational knowledge, and from knowledge to practice.


The primary content of the first phase is to form correct judgments and battle plans through research and investigation. Here, the key is research and investigation. Mao Zedong said: "The commander’s correct deployment comes from the correct determination, the correct determination comes from the correct judgment, and the correct judgment comes from thorough and necessary reconnaissance, and from the continuous contemplation of various reconnaissance materials." Mao Zedong pointed out: Not only is research and investigation extremely important in the first stage of cognition, but it is also extremely important in the second stage. Because whether the understanding obtained in the first stage conforms to reality needs to be reverified in the second stage. If the situation does not match or most of it does not match, the planned plan must be revised to adapt to the new situation. This is from the point of view of the cognitive process of the law of a battle. If you want to explore the universal laws of war, you must deepen your cognition through multiple repetitions from practice to cognition, and from cognition to practice. Focusing on the characteristics and development of war, emphasizing the study of the special laws of war, research and guidance of war, not only should we pay attention to the comprehensive analysis of both the enemy and our situation, oppose idealism in the war issue, but also need to focus on its characteristics and development, oppose mechanical theory in war issues; not only should we pay attention to the study of the general laws of war, but also emphasize the study of the special laws of revolution and the even more special laws of the Chinese Revolutionary War. This is a fundamental methodological principle proposed by Mao Zedong in applying the principle of general and special, universal and individual, to war.

First, from the perspective of the nature of war, revolutionary war is different from counter-revolutionary war. The nature of war is different, and its guiding laws are also different, and cannot be mechanically applied. At the beginning of the land revolution, some people in the army blindly plagiarized the bourgeois military affair, opposing the party's absolute leadership over the army, opposing the Red Army's implementation of the three major tasks, opposing democracy in the army, etc., the root cause lies in not seeing the fundamental difference between the Chinese Revolutionary War and the counter-revolutionary War, between the proletarian army and the bourgeois army.

Second, from the perspective of the war region, each country and each nation, especially the big countries and big nations, have their characteristics, so the war guidance laws also have their features. The Chinese Revolutionary War and the Russian Revolutionary War are the same in nature, but the two countries' situation is different, and the national characteristics are different, so the war's guiding laws are also very different. The dogmatists disregard these differences, rigidly apply the experience of the Russian Revolutionary War to China, blindly demand that everything be "normalized", and oppose so-called "guerrillaism", resulting in severe setbacks to the Land Revolution.

Third, from the perspective of time conditions, as the time conditions of war change, objective situations and tasks also change accordingly, so the war's guiding laws have their characteristics at different historical stages. Compared with the hot-cold weapon era, the methods and guidance laws of war are very different. The Chinese Revolutionary War, due to different stages of war development, also has different guiding laws. For example, the People's Liberation Army mainly focused on mobile warfare in the later stages of the Land Revolution; during the Anti-Japanese War, due to changes in the enemy's situation and tasks, the People's Liberation Army switched to guerrilla warfare as the main form of warfare; during the Liberation War, due to the change in the war situation, the People's Liberation Army again achieved a military strategy. In any case, the war situation is developing and changing, and the guiding laws of war should also change with it. Therefore, Mao Zedong has always emphasized the need to be good at flexibly applying the guiding laws of war according to changes in the war situation.

Section 3 Thoughts on the Construction of the People's Army

I. The Only Purpose of the People's Army



The ideological construction of the People's Army is a new type of People's Army construction thought and theoretical principles that embody Chinese characteristics, which the Chinese Communist Party creatively proposed by combining the principle of Marxist army construction with the actual conditions of the Chinese revolution, in the course of long-term revolutionary warfare and army building practice. Wholeheartedly serving the people is the sole purpose of our army.

As early as November 1927, in the "Current Situation in China and the Task Case of the Communist Party" formulated by the CCP Central Committee, the party identified the working and peasant revolutionary army, which was being formed, as completely different from the mercenary army. The so-called workers and peasant's revolutionary army is actually corresponding to the National Revolutionary Army. It excluded the bourgeois class that had defected after the revolution from the revolutionary camp, thereby declaring its proletarian nature and the purpose of serving the working people. In early 1929, while Mao Zedong and Zhu De were leading the Red Fourth Army to south Jiangxi and west Fujian, they proposed the idea of "the purpose of the Red Army is the revolution of civil rights” through the "Declaration of the Red Fourth Army Command". This was the first time that our army used the concept of "purpose" and demonstrated its location. Putting civil rights acquisition as the purpose of the Red Army appears to be adopting Sun Yat-sen's army-building advocacy, but as the "people" in the Red Army was defined as "workers and peasants and all oppressed classes", it's not the "national" sense originally meant by Sun Yat-sen, hence the "civil rights revolution" put forward by the Red Army essentially aims at the liberation of the working people. Purpose education is the central content of Red Army political education, and the outstanding achievement of Red Army political education lies in cultivating the spirit of self-sacrifice for soldiers and officers to fight for the interests of workers and peasants.

Entering the Sino-Japanese War, the purpose education of our army faced severe challenges due to the changes in the tasks and environment it undertook. On the one hand, the purpose statement during the Red Army period was obviously not fully adaptable to the new situation of the anti-Japanese national united front; on the other hand, our army relieved from the isolation of the civil war, was at risk of being eroded by various non-proletarian thoughts and lost the fundamental revolutionary direction. In this case, our army invested more energy in purpose education. Mao Zedong and others began to explore a way to both retain the essence of the Red Army's purpose and adapt to the new struggle situation. In May 1942, in a speech at Yan'an Literary and Art Symposium, Mao Zedong first used the term "serving the people" to explain the fundamental purpose of our party and army in revolutionary struggle. In September 1944, in the speech "Serving the People", Mao Zedong further made "complete" and "thorough" restrictions on the term serving the people. On this basis, in April 1945, in the political report "On the United Government" of the "Seventh Major" of the Party, Mao Zedong formally formed a complete, accurate and scientific representation method for the purpose of our army: "Standing closely with the Chinese people and wholeheartedly serving the Chinese people are the sole purpose of this army." Since then, wholeheartedly serving the people has become the fundamental starting point of all actions of our army; adhering to this purpose has also become an important guiding principle for the political work of our army. Under the guidance of this purpose, the soldiers and officers of our army can develop a revolutionary spirit of not afraid of hardship and death and have the revolutionary heroic spirit that can overcome all enemies. The army can share the same weal and woe with the people, hurry where the people are urgent, think what the people think, help the people what they need, establish a flesh-and-blood connection with the people, and become a beloved soldier of the people. All actions can follow the command of the party, and become a model of implementing the party's line, guidelines and policies. In this way, our army can become an invincible and invincible hero army. The purpose of our army is the embodiment of the class nature of a new type of people's army. The army always serves the interest of a certain class and is thus naturally of a distinctive class nature.



The purpose of an army is the code of conduct for the army and a concentrated representation of its class nature. Our army consciously adheres to the principle of "serving the people wholeheartedly", which indicates that our army is committed to the interests of the people and is deeply rooted in the people, relying closely on the people. To follow this principle is not just determined by the proletarian nature of our army, but also a concentrated representation of the proletarian nature of our army.

Our army is a new type of people's army, which is different from those armies serving the interests of the reactionary and declining classes and those people's armies historically organized by oppressed classes or emerging exploiting classes to overthrow the decaying ruling class. Firstly, it was established during China's New Democratic Revolution, fighting for the purpose of this revolution and to consolidate the gains of this revolution. This revolution is essentially a bourgeois revolution led by the proletariat, with the ultimate goal of paving the way for a socialist society or even a communist society, eliminating all exploitation systems and all exploiting classes. As Mao Zedong pointed out, "The so-called New Democratic Revolution is a anti-imperialist and anti-feudal revolution of the masses under the leadership of the proletariat"; "This revolution is precisely for clearing a broader path for the development of socialism". This implies that China's New Democratic Revolution is crucial to the preparation for China's socialist revolution to eliminate exploitation and the exploiting class. It is unlike any revolution in history, standing at a completely new historical starting line and aiming to reach a completely new historical height. The army born in this revolution and fighting for this revolution will necessarily have a new ideological realm. Secondly, our army is led by the Communist Party, a military group carrying out the Party's political missions. The Communist Party is the vanguard of the proletariat, the conscious struggle to realize the common prosperity of mankind, and works fully and completely for the interests of the people. It has naturally made serving the people wholeheartedly the principle of the army it leads, and implemented the idea of serving the people wholeheartedly in the army it leads. Thirdly, our army is armed with Marxism, using dialectical materialism and historical materialism as tools for understanding the world. One of the basic principles of Marxism is that the masses are the creators of history. Without the support of the masses, anyone will be unaccomplished. Based on this principle of Marxism, Mao Zedong emphasized that revolutionary war must have the support of the people, stating: "The deepest source of the magnificent power of war lies within the public." Our army takes serving the people wholeheartedly as the criteria for all of its actions, consciously puts it into practice following the basic principle of Marxism, keeps itself immersed in the masses, never strays from the masses, and relies closely on the support of the masses.

Serving the people wholeheartedly is the source of the strength of our army. Mao Zedong pointed out in the article "On the People's Democratic Dictatorship" that the reason our army is powerful is its conscious discipline and the principle of serving the people wholeheartedly.


Due to adhering to this principle, our army possesses a fearless spirit, determined to defeat all enemies, and never succumb to them; due to adhering to this principle, our army maintains unity and consistency between officers and soldiers, superiors and subordinates, and military work, political work and logistical work internally, as well as unity between the military and civilians, military and government, and our allies externally.  Due to adhering to this principle, our army has a correct policy for winning over enemy officers and soldiers and handling prisoners of war; due to adhering to this principle, our army has formed a series of strategies and tactics required for people's war; due to adhering to this principle, our army has formed revolutionary political work necessary for people's war; due to adhering to this principle, our army consciously performs the tasks of the production team. 
Under the principle of serving the people wholeheartedly, the officers and soldiers of our army clearly know that they are fighting for the people's interests, which include their own, and that their cause is great and noble, thus obtaining a strong psychological pillar. Therefore, they have a conscious and heroic spirit of self-sacrifice, willing to sacrifice their lives to defeat the enemy, even if it means fighting to the last man, they will never surrender. It is such a spirit that makes our army an invincible and fearless military.

Under the principle of serving the people wholeheartedly, our army has a good tradition of internal and external unity. Internally, whether they are officers, soldiers or even cooks, they are all from all over the country, all serving the people, all class brothers, and only on this basis of common class interests can a new relationship between officers and soldiers be formed. Externally, the army and the people form a close relationship. The army places the interests of the people above all else, always protecting the people's interests; the people regard this army as their own children and provide continuous support in terms of manpower, material resources, and spiritual support. They support the army at all costs and provide support for the army's survival and development, setting up posts, keeping vigil, leading the way, delivering food and ammunition, hiding wounded soldiers, cooperating in operations, and many models of supporting the army are emerging. The respect and love between officers, soldiers, and citizens is the source of the invincible strength of our army.

Under the principle of serving the people wholeheartedly, our army can effectively disintegrate the enemy army. Because our army can correctly distinguish between the upper and lower levels of the enemy army and carry out targeted work. Especially for the lower-level officers and soldiers of the enemy army, our army, with its actions of serving the people wholeheartedly, makes them understand that the war our army is engaged in is in line with their interests. Once they understand this, they will leave their old camps and join our army. In addition, under the guidance of the principle of serving the people wholeheartedly, our army follows a humanitarian policy towards prisoners, treats the injured, respects their dignity, welcomes those who wish to stay, and sends off those who wish to leave... This series of correct prisoner policies effectively disintegrates the morale of the enemy.

Under the principle of serving the people wholeheartedly, our army has formed strategies and tactics unique to the people's war. This strategy and tactics are based on the support of the people; and this strategy and tactics can only work with the support of the people.

Under the principle of serving the people wholeheartedly, the political work of our army is unified among officers and soldiers, the army and the people, and disintegrating the enemy army. The political work carried out according to this series of principles fundamentally mobilizes the intelligence and courage of our vast number of officers and soldiers, ensures good internal and external relations of our army, and effectively disintegrates the enemy army.


Under the principle of serving the people wholeheartedly, our army starts from the principle of reducing the burden on the people and actively undertakes production activities in the intervals of combat or training. The implementation of this activity not only greatly improved the living conditions of our military officers and soldiers but also won the support of the masses, making the masses truly regard this army as their own. 

Insisting on serving the people with all one's heart and soul gives our army powerful spiritual strength and the sincere support of the masses. This is the true strength of our army. As Zhu De once pointed out: "Our army is the product of the Chinese people's revolution. It is as loyal to the people as a son is to his mother, so the people love and support it, help it overcome difficulties, and continuously consolidate and grow under extremely harsh conditions."

The three major tasks of our army, as the main instrument of war, are naturally to fight. But as a people's army founded by the Chinese Communist Party, its duties are not only to fight. Since its inception, it has been carrying out the triadic tasks of fighting, doing mass work, and raising funds. In September 1929, the "Instruction Letter from the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China to the Fourth Army of the Red Army" stated that the basic tasks of the Red Army were: "First, to launch mass struggles, carry out land revolutions, and establish Soviet power; second, to carry out guerrilla warfare, arm the peasants, and expand its organization; third, to expand the guerrilla areas and political influence to the whole country." The letter said: "If the Red Army cannot carry out the above three tasks, it is no different from a regular army." The Gutian Conference Resolution, drafted by Mao Zedong, further pointed out based on the spirit of the letter: The Red Army is "an armed group that carries out revolutionary political tasks," "In addition to fighting to eliminate enemy military forces, it also bears major tasks such as propaganda to the masses, organizing the masses, arming the masses, helping the masses establish revolutionary power, and establishing Communist Party organizations." If these are forgotten, "it is to lose the meaning of fighting and the reason for the existence of the Red Army."

During the Anti-Japanese War, the task of raising funds was changed to "production," i.e., "making use of the intervals of combat and training to engage in the production of food and daily necessities, reaching the goal of self-supply, half self-supply or partial self-supply by the army." Mao Zedong once wrote about the great significance of the army's self-supply at that time. He pointed out: "The army's self-supply, under our conditions, is seemingly backward and regressive in form, but in substance, it is progressive and of significant historical meaning." "It allows our army to overcome difficulties in living materials, improve living conditions, and lighten the tax burden on the people in the difficult situation, thus winning the support of the people, sufficient to support a long-term war, and sufficient to expand the army, thereby expanding the liberated areas and shrinking the occupied areas, achieving the final goal of eliminating the invaders and liberifying the whole of China. Is this historical significance not great?" He said: "As long as every one of us brave and good at fighting Eighth Route Army and New Fourth Army, everyone is not only good at fighting, doing mass work, but also producing, we are not afraid of any difficulties, we will be what Mengzi said: 'Invincible'.

Before and after the victory of the liberation war, the three major tasks of our army were popularly summarized as a combat team, a work team, and a production team. In 1949, when the national liberation was about to come, a large number of cadres were urgently needed to carry out work in the vast new areas. Faced with this situation, the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China decided to transform all 2.1 million field armies into work teams. In his report at the Second Plenary Session of the Seventh Central Committee, Mao Zedong pointed out: "The People's Liberation Army is always a combat team. Even after the nationwide victory, during the historical period when the class has not been eliminated in the country and the imperialist system exists in the world, our army is still a combat team." "The People's Liberation Army is also a work team... With the gradual reduction of fights, the role of the work team has increased.



"After the founding of the People's Republic of China, the party faced the arduous task of reviving the national economy. The Military Commission of the Central People's Government pointed out in the “Directive on the Participation of the Army in Production and Construction in 1950”, "The People's Liberation Army is not only a defense army, but also a production army." This led to the formation of combat teams, work teams, and production teams. 
The fundamental purpose of building the People's Army is to serve the people, the army will do what the people need, and the interests of the Chinese people are the highest criterion to determine the tasks of our army at various times. Without this, the basic premise is lost. At the same time, the functions of the army are linked to its tasks. There are military, political, and economic tasks, long-term and current tasks, as well as basic and auxiliary tasks, etc. Our army is the part of the people that is the most organized, the most conscious, and the most combative. It can use military means to eliminate the enemy; it can serve as a propagator and organizer for the masses; it can also carry out agricultural and military production, reduce the burden on the people, support local construction, and even rescue the people from natural disasters, integrating multiple tasks in one, serving the people in all aspects. Of course, the People's Army's execution of the three major tasks has priorities. The People's Army, as a tool of the proletariat revolution and dictatorship, its fundamental task is combat. At different historical periods, the party has repeatedly emphasized that the People's Army can only complete other tasks without hindering its fundamental tasks. If it denies this basic task and does other work, it is putting the cart before the horse. It fails to accomplish the special tasks entrusted to our army by the people and fundamentally harms the interests of the people.

II. Adhere to the Party's Absolute Leadership over the Army
Formation of the Party's Ideology of Absolute Leadership over the Army
From the day the Communist Party of China had its own armed forces, it attached great importance to the issue of leadership over the army. In October 1927, on the way to the Jinggang Mountains leading the Autumn Harvest Uprising troops, Mao Zedong carried out the famous "Three Bays Reform", deciding to establish party organizations at all levels within the army under the leadership of the party's pre-enemy committee. "Party branches are built at the company level", party groups are established at the squad and platoon levels, party committees are established at the battalion and regiment levels, and party representatives are set at levels above the company. These important principles and systems have laid an important organizational foundation for the realization of party leadership over the military. In July 1928, in Zhou Enlai's military report at the Sixth Congress of the Party, when discussing the establishment of the Red Army and the militarization of party members, it was explicitly proposed that "the party should play a central role and a leading role." The "Resolution on Military Work" passed by the Sixth Congress of the Party further pointed out that "all military work of the Communist Party of China should be concentrated in the Central Military Department of the Communist Party of China." In December 1929, the Red Fourth Army held the Ninth Congress of the Party, and the famous Gutian Conference Resolution drafted by Mao Zedong pointed out against the purely military point of view that was detached from the leadership of the Party, clearly proposed that "China's Red Army is an armed group that performs revolutionary political tasks", and the ruling organs of the party in the army should become "the central leadership"; it stipulated that "all work, after the discussion and resolution of the party, should be carried out by the masses", important issues after the party committee meeting discussion, "once a resolution is made, it must be resolutely implemented". This established a set of principles and measures to realize the party's leadership over the army politically, ideologically, and organizationally, fundamentally distinguishing the proletariat army from all old armies and established the red army completely on the foundation of Marxism, thus strengthening the party's leadership over the army. In June 1930, the pre-enemy committee of the CPC issued the "Outline of Political Work at All Levels of the Fourth Army of the Red Army" prepared by the Red Fourth Army, as well as the "Provisional Regulations on the Political Work of the Chinese Workers' and Peasants' Red Army (Draft)" promulgated by the central government in the winter of 1930, both formally stipulated the party's leadership over the army. Since then, adhering to the fundamental principle of the party's absolute leadership over the army, has appeared in many of our party and army's formal documents, and has also been stipulated in military political work regulations promulgated over the years."



The principle of the Party's absolute leadership over the military, not only gradually formed and established with the founding of our army, but is also deeply rooted on the basis of Marxist theory. 

Marxism tells us that the army is the product of class struggle and is the tool for a certain class and its party to achieve political purposes. It is subordinate to a certain class and its party and serves the interests of a certain class and its party. There is no supra-class army or supra-party army in the world. Since modern times, the ruling class usually leads the state through its own party, and also controls the army through its own party. Of course, there are various forms for the ruling class to control the military. For example, in capitalist countries, some control state power and the military through one party, some through the rotation of two or multiple parties. However, regardless of the form, it cannot change the essence of executing the ruling class's will and cannot cover up the fact that it is the party, state, and army of the ruling class. The bourgeoisie's rule cannot allow the proletariat to take control of their political power, their military. Similarly, the Communist Party as the vanguard of the proletariat must firmly hold the leadership of the proletariat's army in its own hands and never share it with any other party.

In the long-term revolutionary struggle, the Chinese Communists have greatly enriched and developed Marxist theory by combining the basic principles of Marxism with the specific practice of the Chinese revolution, in many fields, including classes, parties, states, and armies. Mao Zedong once pointed out: "The party is the vanguard of the proletariat and the highest form of proletarian organization, and it should lead all other organizations, such as the army, government, and people's groups." He also said: "In these seven aspects of industry, agriculture, commerce, education, military, politics, and the party, the party leads everything." The Communist Party absolutely leads the army, which is Mao Zedong's consistent thought and proposition. As early as the land revolution, Mao Zedong explicitly stated: "Only the Communist Party leads this revolutionary war, and the Communist Party has formed an absolute leadership over the revolutionary war. The absolute leadership of the Communist Party is the most important condition for the revolutionary war to persist to the end. Without this absolute leadership by the Communist Party, it cannot be imagined that the revolutionary war could be so persistent." After the outbreak of the Anti-Japanese War, in order to strengthen the party's absolute leadership over the army, Mao Zedong further emphasized in the article "The Situation and Task of the Anti-Japanese War after the Fall of Shanghai and Taiyuan" that the Chinese Communist Party insists on its independent and self-determined guidelines in the Anti-Japanese National United Front, clearly stating: we "rejected the Nationalist Party's request to send their party members as Eighth Route Army cadres and adhere to the principle that the Communist Party absolutely commands the Eighth Route Army." In November 1938, when he summarized the experience of the party adhering to the principle of independence and autonomy in the united front since the outbreak of the war and talked about the lesson of Zhang Guozhu's own military power at the sixth plenary session of the sixth party, he further emphasized: "Communist Party members do not fight for personal military power (we must not fight, and never learn from Zhang Guozhu again), but fight for the party's military power, and fight for people's military power." "Our principle is that the party commands the gun, and the gun never commands the party. This is the most vivid summary of Mao Zedong's principle of absolute leadership of the party over the army. In October 1947, he reiterated in the "Declaration of the Chinese People's Liberation Army" that “all our soldiers must always remember that we are the magnificent People's Liberation Army, led by the great Chinese Communist Party. As long as we always adhere to the Party's instructions, we will surely win. The fact is indeed so.


For several decades, the reason why our army has been able to grow from small to large, from weak to strong, and move from victory to victory, the most important reason is that our army has always been under the absolute leadership of the Communist Party of China. The necessity of adhering to the Party's absolute leadership over the military. First of all, the Party's absolute leadership over the military is the fundamental guarantee of the proletariat nature of our military. In the specific environment of the Chinese revolution, emphasizing the Party's absolute leadership over the military can effectively turn the military, which is mainly composed of peasants, into a military of proletariat nature. The Chinese revolutionary war that took place in the semi-colonial and semi-feudal society, in essence, is a peasant war led by the proletariat, and the main component of the revolutionary army is inevitably peasants. As the oppressed, especially those deeply pressed under the three big mountains, Chinese peasants have a strong revolutionism. They strongly desire to overthrow the society that makes them suffer. However, as small producers, they are often influenced by the petty-bourgeois worldview, narrow-minded, lack of foresight, free and loose, and easy to go to extremes. In order to make an army that is mainly composed of peasants into a true proletarian revolutionary army, it is necessary to transform this army with the proletarian worldview and restrain this army with the proletarian revolutionary discipline. All of this can only be realized under the leadership of the Communist Party. Only the Communist Party can implement the proletarian revolutionary worldview in the army, establish proletarian revolutionary discipline in the army, thereby effectively overcome all kinds of petty-bourgeois worldview influences brought to this army due to peasant components, and make this army fully and thoroughly fight for the people's benefits. As pointed out in a paragraph added by Mao Zedong in the "Report on Military Political Work Issue of the Rearguard Corps Political Department at the Northwest Bureau Cadre Meeting", "It is unimaginable if our army does not have the leadership of the Communist Party and does not have the revolutionary military and political work led by the Communist Party. Without the leadership of the Communist Party, there would be no military and political work that thoroughly supports the interests of the people, and if there is no such army with military and political work, it would not be an army that thoroughly supports the interests of the people."

Second, only by adhering to the absolute leadership of the Communist Party of China can our army complete the historical tasks of the Chinese revolution. This is determined by the absolute leadership of the Chinese Communist Party over the revolutionary war. The practice of the Chinese revolution proves that only the proletariat and the Communist Party of China can overcome the narrowness of the peasant class, the petty bourgeoisie, and the national bourgeoisie, lead the revolution and war to the path of victory. The Party’s leadership over the entire war determines its leadership over the military. The Communist Party represents the interests of the broad masses of the people, thus being able to widely mobilize the masses to participate in and support its own army, allowing the war to acquire a deep pool of human and material resources. The Communist Party educates the army with the proletarian worldview, allowing the entire army and soldiers to deeply understand the laws of social development, hate all forms of exploitation, establish the lofty ideals of fighting for communism and serving the people wholeheartedly, thereby giving the army a high level of political consciousness, excellent internal and external unity, a total spirit of revolution, an unconquerable spirit, and an indomitable fight. Therefore, in the revolutionary war, they can be invincible and victorious in all battles; the Communist Party with its tight organization, discipline, and exemplary role makes its organizations at all levels the core of the unified leadership and unity of the military, making the army an unbreakable, unwavering fighting collective, an iron Great Wall that cannot be shaken by any individual ambitious schemers; the Communist Party uses Marxism's scientific theory as a guide, pointing out the correct political direction for the army in a timely manner, and formulating flexible and mobile strategies and tactics.



The Chinese Revolutionary War was long and complex. The People's Army often found itself in difficult positions, but due to the correct political and military leadership of the Party, it was finally able to grow from weak to strong, defeating all powerful enemies at home and abroad. 
In the end, the absolute leadership of the Party over the army is the fundamental guarantee for the growth and continuous victories of our army. The People's Liberation Army was born on August 1, 1927, was known as the Red Army of workers and peasants during the Land Revolution War, was reorganized into the Eighth Route Army and the New Fourth Army during the Anti-Japanese War, and was named the People's Liberation Army during the Liberation War. The growth of the army from scratch, from small to large, and from weak to strong, are all results of the correct leadership and command of the Party. The third erroneous "leftist" dogmatic leadership and Zhang Guozhu's right opportunist anti-party activities lost the Red Army and its base areas nine-tenths. The Party and Mao Zedong resolutely opposed these "leftist" and rightist opportunisms, upheld the correct Marxist-Leninist guidance of the army, insisted on the correct military line, and ensured the growth and development of our army and achieved one victory after another. In particular, the Zunyi Conference established Mao Zedong's leadership position in the Red Army and the Party Central Committee, saved the Party in a critical moment, and also saved the Red Army. Thereafter, under the correct leadership of the Party, the Red Army shattered the enemy's encirclement and blockade, overcame rare difficulties and obstacles, successfully completed the 25,000-mile Long March, and created a miracle in human history. During the Anti-Japanese War, the strength comparison between the enemy and us was extremely disparate and the struggle environment was extremely difficult. Our Party, however, formulated the policy and strategy of conducting an independent and autonomous guerrilla war against Japan, leading our army to march deep into the enemy's rear, liberate the masses, and conduct a protracted people's war, finally shattering the myth of the invincibility of Japanese imperialism. After defeating the Japanese invaders, the Party Central Committee and Mao Zedong commanded our army to carry out the unprecedented scale of the Liberation War with the Kuomintang army, and in just over three years eliminated the Kuomintang's eight million reactionary troops, achieving the victory of liberating the whole of China. The facts eloquently prove that the establishment and growth of the Chinese People's Liberation Army is entirely attributable to the Chinese Communist Party, which founded, nurtured, and commanded the army. The Party's absolute control over the army must be realized through politics, ideology, organization, and systems. In the long-term practice of revolutionary struggle, our Party, in order to strengthen absolute command over the army, has gradually formed a set of fundamentally effective systems and measures to lead the army. This is the crystallization of the scientific experience of our Party's leadership of the army, which must be seriously upheld. 
Politically, the absolute leadership of the Party over the army is realized through the leadership of the Party's program, policies, and guidelines. The army is a tool for realizing the political program and policies of the Party. Only by resolutely implementing the Party's policies can the correct direction of army building be maintained, the thoughts and actions of the entire army be united, the relationship between army building and the Party's central task be properly handled, and the army truly become an armed group that obeys and serves the Party's program and policies and serves the realization of the Party's political tasks better. Therefore, the Party stipulates that in the army, only the Party's program, policies, and guidelines can be propagated, and the vast majority of officers and soldiers should be mobilized and organized to strive for the realization of the Party's program, policies, and guidelines. If various political assertions were allowed to be propagated freely within the army, it would cause confusion in the army, or even lose its direction and break away from the leadership of the Party.


In order to realize the political leadership of the military, the Party has formulated a series of military building principles, such as adhering to the purpose of serving the people wholeheartedly, adhering to the principle of the Party controlling the gun; adhering to educating the troops with Marxism-Leninism, Mao Zedong Thought, and the Party's line, guidelines, and policies; carrying out the three major tasks of combat, working, and production teams; implementing the three major disciplines and eight points of attention; implementing the three major democracies in politics, military, and economy; implementing the three major principles of unity between officers and soldiers, unity between the military and the people, and disintegration of the enemy's army; observing the three major disciplines and eight points of attention; selecting and appointing cadres according to the principle of both moral integrity and professional competence; strengthening the construction of Party organizations in the military, exerting the core leadership role of the Party Committee; combat fort role of the Party branch and the vanguard model role of the Communist Party members; establishing a system of political work, etc. In the long-term revolutionary struggle, it is precisely by adhering to this set of military building principles that the Party has made the military always an armed group carrying out the Party's political tasks.
In terms of thought, the Party's absolute leadership over the military is realized through the insistence on the leadership of Marxism-Leninism, Mao Zedong Thought. Marxism-Leninism, Mao Zedong Thought is the only guiding ideology of our Party, country, and military, and is the ideological and theoretical basis for the Party to realize its absolute leadership over the military. This is because the Party's program, line, guideline, policy, and the series of military building principles formulated by the Party for the military, are all products of the combination of Marxism-Leninism, Mao Zedong Thought, and the actual conditions of the country and military. Only by arming the military with Marxism-Leninism, Mao Zedong Thought can the military and the Party have a common ideological basis, all actions follow the command of the Party, and can improve the ability of the majority of officers and soldiers to identify and resist various non-proletarian ideological erosions, maintain the purity of military thought. To realize the leadership of the army in ideology, the Party has established a complete set of ideological and political work of the Party in the army and carried out various forms of political education in due course according to the development and changes of the situation and the actual situation of the army. Through this education, the Party truly realizes the ideological leadership of the army.
In terms of organization, the Party achieves its absolute leadership of the military by establishing Party organizations at all levels of the military under the centralized and unified leadership of the Party Central Committee and the Central Military Commission, serving as the unified leadership and unity core of the troops, and making the highest leadership and command right of the military be concentrated in the Party Central Committee and the Central Military Commission, thereby realizing the Party’s absolute leadership of the military. The Regulations on Political Work of Our Army stipulate: “The People’s Liberation Army of China must be placed under the absolute leadership of the Communist Party of China. The highest leadership and command of the army belong to the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China and the Central Military Commission.” According to this organizational principle, in the army, only the Communist Party and its assistant—the Communist Youth League, can establish Party and League organizations, develop Party and League members, and carry out work; only Party organizations can appoint leaders at all levels of the army. Without the approval of the corresponding political organs, members of the military are not allowed to join other parties and religious organizations, establish various groups and organizations outside the regulations, or join local mass organizations on their own. The Party's organizational leadership of the military is the organizational guarantee for the Party's leadership of the military. In order to realize the Party's organizational leadership of the military, the Party has taken a series of organizational measures. Through these organizational measures, the goal of the Party's absolute organizational leadership of the military is achieved.
In terms of systems, it is to adhere to the commander-in-chief responsibility system under the unified collective leadership of the Party committee. This is a fundamental system to adhere to the Party’s absolute leadership over the army. The unified leadership of the Party committee, the collective leadership of the Party committee, and the commander in charge of divided work are three inseparable organic components, none of which can be lacking. This system of commander-in-chief responsibility under the collective leadership of the Party committee combines the wisdom of the collective with the initiative and creativity of individuals, which can both avoid the one-sidedness and possible mistakes of individual decision-making and prevent the phenomenon of relying on the collective for everything and no one taking responsibility.


This ensures the implementation of the party's instructions and resolutions, and the completion of various tasks entrusted by the party.
Third, the guiding principles of political work
The military building thought of the Communist Party of China not only emphasizes the importance of political work, but also summarizes the experiences of our army's political work, systematically presenting the guiding principles of our army's political work. About the basic principle of our army's political work, Mao Zedong said: "On the basis of the people's war, with the unity of the army and the people, the commander and the combatants, and the disintegration of the enemy army, the People's Liberation Army has established its own powerful revolutionary political work."

The basic content and requirements of the three principles were initially proposed during the Sanwan reorganization and the Jinggangshan struggle period. In September 1927, when Mao Zedong led the Autumn Harvest Uprising to carry out the Sanwan reorganization of the Workers and Peasants Revolutionary Army, he proposed to eliminate the management of feudal mercenary armies and warlord style, and implement democratic systems. It was specified that officers were not allowed to beat and scold soldiers, the soldiers had the freedom to speak at meetings, and the Soldiers' Committee was established at the company level and above to supervise expenditure and to criticize and supervise cadres. This democracy, based on complete political equality between officers and soldiers, became the initial content of the principle of unity between our army officers and soldiers. In October 1927, when Mao Zedong led the Workers and Peasants Revolutionary Army to Jinggangshan, he successively put forward the Three Main Rules of Discipline and Six Points for Attention, proposed that the army should undertake tasks of fighting, doing mass work and raising funds, and required our army to respect the interests of the masses and obey the discipline of the masses under the principle of seeking benefits for the people, in order to achieve the goal of unity and common struggle between the army and the people. This is the initial requirement of the principle of unity between the army and the people in our army. After the Revolutionary Army of Workers and Peasants established the revolutionary base in Jinggangshan, the enemy armies in Hunan and Jiangxi provinces organized suppression operations from time to time.

On how to handle prisoners of war in the battle between the Revolutionary Army of Workers and Peasants and the enemy army, the understanding and recognition of our army by the officers and soldiers of the enemy army affected how our army could ultimately defeat the enemy. In February 1928, Mao Zedong set out three policies for dealing with prisoners of war: no beating, scolding, killing, mistreatment, discrimination, or searching of prisoners of war, prisoners of war were to enjoy the same political and living treatment as our soldiers; implemented the principle of letting prisoners of war decide their own lives - those who wanted to stay were welcome, those who wanted to leave were given travel expenses; and treatment was given to wounded and sick prisoners of war. These three policies became the basic points of our army’s prisoner of war policy. And leniency towards prisoners of war is our army's main way to disintegrate the enemy army. The basic content and requirements for the above-mentioned three aspects were further confirmed at the Gutian Conference. The resolution required the Red Army to establish new relations between officers and soldiers, the military and the people, and correctly implement a policy on prisoners of war. Abolish the management system and method of leading the old army, and gradually improve the principle of political work. On October 25, 1937, in a conversation with the British journalist Bette, Mao Zedong officially summarized the unity of officers and soldiers, the unity of the military and the people, and the disintegration of the enemy army as the three basic principles of our army's political work.

About the principle of unity of officers and soldiers, Mao Zedong pointed out: "This is to eliminate feudalism in the army, abolish the system of beating and scolding, establish self-disciplined discipline, and lead a life of sharing weal and woe, so the whole army is united." The unity of officers and soldiers is the solid base for our army to overcome all kinds of difficulties and powerful enemies. Sticking to this principle can help our army thoroughly eliminate the residual thoughts of feudalism, mercenarism, and warlordism, and practice political equality, fraternal unity, shared happiness and hardship, and joint struggle between superiors and subordinates, and between cadres and soldiers. The meaning of the relationship between officers and soldiers is broad, not only including the main relationship between officers and soldiers but also relationships between superiors and subordinates, units, and departments. Since the relationship between officers and soldiers is the most fundamental relationship in the army, the principle of unity of officers and soldiers as the representative has become the basic rule for dealing with various relationships within the army. In this relationship, soldiers are the basis and cadres are the guide.



The education of leaders must first care for and love the soldiers, treating the soldiers as class brothers, and fully bringing into play their initiative and creativity. At the same time, it is also necessary to educate the soldiers to respect and cherish their leaders, willingly obey management and command, and help leaders correct their shortcomings and mistakes from a caring perspective, promoting internal unity and forming a strong cohesion. Mao Zedong pointed out, "Establishing conscious discipline and sharing life's joys and sorrows; hence, the whole army is united."

The unanimously principle of the people's army is not just a good wish and slogan, but is ensured by the democratic system. This democratic system has produced powerful forces. During the Jinggangshan period, the material life of the Red Army was extremely hard, and the battles were very frequent, but still maintained unchanging. Apart from the role of the party, this was relying on the implementation of democracy within the army. The officers don't beat and scold the soldiers. The treatment of the officers and soldiers is equal. The soldiers have the freedom to speak at meetings, abolished cumbersome etiquette, and made finances public. Those new captive soldiers felt that the Kuomintang army and the Red Army were two worlds, although the Red Army's material life was not as good as the White Army, but their spirit was liberated. Therefore, the same soldier, who was a cowardly enemy yesterday, is a brave Red Army today. Based on this, Mao Zedong pointed out, "Not only do the Chinese people need democracy, but the army also needs democracy. The democratic system within the army will be an important weapon to undermine the feudal mercenaries." He also said that the army "implementing a certain degree of democratization" "would drastically increase its combat power, and it would not fear that it could not sustain a long and cruel war". During the liberation war, the democratic system of the People's Army further developed into three major democracies of politics, economy, and military. Political democracy means enabling soldiers to exercise their democratic rights to achieve high political unity. Economic democracy is for soldiers to select representatives, who has the right to assist (not exceed) the company leader in managing the company's supplies and food, in order to improve the way of life. Military democracy is to teach each other between officers and soldiers, and soldiers during training; during combat, under the guidance of the company leader, mobilize soldiers to discuss combat methods, utilize the wisdom of the officers and soldiers, in order to improve technical tactics. The implementation of three major democracies has better implemented the principle of unity between officers and soldiers of the People's Liberation Army, which strongly guaranteed the victory of the war.

Regarding the principle of unity between the army and the people, Mao Zedong pointed out: "The relationship between cadres and soldiers should be close and united. The relationship between the army and the people and local party and government organizations should also be close". "The army must unite with the people, so that the army is viewed as their own in the eyes of the people, and this army will be invincible in the world". Emphasizing the principle of unity between the army and the people requires political work to ensure the unity of the army and the government and the army and the people. Under the guidance of this principle, the army always respects the people's government, cares for the people's interests, strictly enforces mass discipline, reduces the economic burden on the people, supports the people, abides by local policies and laws, respects local cadres, strengthens the unity of the army and the people, and jointly strikes against the enemy. The adherence to political work of this basic principle of correctly handling military-civilian relations can ensure the symbiotic relationship between the army and the people, gain the support and support of the people and the local government, and achieve victory in people's wars.


During the initial establishment of our military, we implemented the three major tasks and the three disciplines and six attentions, as specific actions to enforce the unity of the military and the civilians. On October 1, 1943, the CPC Central Committee issued a directive, demanding the People's Army to launch a large-scale "pro-governance and love the people" movement in the next January. To make a match, the anti-Japanese bases' governments and people of are required to launch a large-scale "support the army and prefer the anti-Japanese" movement, and a system needs to be established. During this movement, civilians and military both established and revised their own pro-government civilian conventions and support the army conventions, held celebration meetings, and consciously checked and criticized their own shortcomings. This is a new creation that implements the principle of unity between the military and the civilian society, and it serves as a good method to handle disagreements between the two in a correct manner. It brought the military and civilians in the anti-Japanese bases closer. Today, the annual pro-governance, love of the people, support for the army, and preference for the people activities before and after the Lunar New Year remain an institutional tradition in our country.

As for the principle of disintegrating the enemy army and treating prisoners with leniency, Mao Zedong pointed out, "Our victory not only relies on our army's operations but also depends on the disintegration of the enemy's army." Therefore, the People's Army has a correct policy for winning over the enemy's officers and men and treating prisoners. Anyone from the enemy who defects, repents, or is willing to fight against the common enemy after laying down their arms is welcomed and is provided appropriate education. Everyone, who becomes a prisoner of war, is treated kindly, without being killed, humiliated, or insulted."

This principle requires our army to carry out political propaganda and organizational disintegration of the enemy army politically, ideologically, organizationally, and psychologically while fighting. Various forms, such as battlefield shouting, distribution of propaganda materials, and infiltration into the enemy, are used to carry out political offensives that shake the morale and weaken the fighting strength of the enemy army. Implementing a good policy for prisoners of war, respecting the dignity of those surrendering, repenting, and laying down their arms, treating them leniently and without humiliation, and welcoming those who join our army, help weaken the enemy's strength and enhance our own to the greatest extent.

First established in the Jinggang Mountain period, the Red Army laid down four regulations for treating prisoners of war with leniency: first, don't beat, scold, kill, or torture prisoners of war. Second, don't search the prisoners' waist packs. Third, provide treatment to the injured. Fourth, release prisoners of war with freedom to stay or go; those who stay are welcomed and can join the workers and peasants revolutionary army, who will treat everyone equally, while those who leave will be given travel expenses. 

In all wars, our army used various propaganda tools to carry out a strong political offensive against the enemy army to support the military offensive. Due to the serious implementation of the principle of disintegrating the enemy army, the enemy's combat effectiveness was effectively weakened. During the Red Army period, from the first to the fourth anti-"siege" in the central revolutionary base area, 514,000 enemies were annihilated, among them, 198,000 were captured, accounting for 38.5%. During the Anti-Japanese War, Japanese soldiers influenced strongly by the militaristic education and the spirit of Bushido were also captured by the people's army. Under the inspiration of the policy of treating the prisoners of war with leniency, they joined the fight against the war of aggression. They formed anti-war and revolutionary organizations such as the "Anti-War Alliance" and "Awakening Alliance" and fought against the Japanese invaders shoulder to shoulder with the Chinese people. 

In the Liberation War, our army annihilated more than 8 million Kuomintang troops. Among them, the number of prisoners of war, defectors, rebels, and reorganized people totaled 6.36 million, accounting for 79% of the total number of enemies annihilated. These facts vividly illustrate the importance of the principle of disintegrating the enemy army.

The People's Army regards the unity of officers and soldiers, the unity of the military and civilians, and the disintegration of the enemy army as basic principles of political work also based on the purpose of the People's Army. First of all, the People's Army comes from the people and for the people. It does not have its own special interests. There is a common political base composed of shared interests between the army and the civilians. The officers and soldiers are all together for a common goal. Therefore, it is feasible and necessary for the People's Army's relationship between officers and soldiers and the people to be unanimous.



Next, the victory in the revolutionary war mainly depends on the masses of the people and soldiers. Therefore, it does not allow its own troops to stand above the people, and it does not allow officers to stand above soldiers. Instead, it must implement unity between the military and the people as well as unity between officers and soldiers. The principles of disintegrating the enemy forces and lenient treatment of prisoners of war are also inseparable from the class nature of the people's army. The people's army is fighting a just war against an unjust war, and it firmly believes that truth can persuade people, and the counter-revolutionary army can be disintegrated. The enemy soldiers who work for the reactionary class are mostly the coerced working masses, so the people's army should not torture and kill the enemy officers and soldiers who have dropped their weapons, but should practice revolutionary humanitarianism, show magnanimity, and strive to have them join the side of the just war. This not only will lead to the disintegration of the enemy's army and leniency towards prisoners of war, but it will also prompt the enemy's internal officers and soldiers to realize the unjust nature of the war. 

Mao Zedong pointed out: If the relationship between the military and the people, as well as the relationship between officers and soldiers is not handled well, this is not a matter of methods, but of fundamental attitudes or principles; the three major principles of respect for soldiers, respect for the people, and respect for captured enemy soldiers who have laid down their arms, all have to come from a fundamental attitude of respect for their human dignity. This democratic spirit is unique to the proletarian revolutionary army. All reactionary armies have no common interests with the masses and there exists contradictions of confrontation. Therefore, they are in opposition to the military and the people, and opposition between officers and soldiers. They cannot take a democratic attitude towards soldiers and the people, only use deceit and coercion; and for enemy prisoners of war, they often torture and massacre. All of this is inseparable from the class nature of these reactionary armies. Without doing so, the majority of their officers and soldiers from working-class backgrounds would not be able to act against the people, their army would not become the tool of the reactionary class.

The three principles of democracy are a vivid manifestation of the mass line in the construction of the army. Since the establishment of our army, Mao Zedong has emphasized the need to implement the mass line and develop democracy within the army. He pointed out that democracy is needed not only by the people but also by the army. The democratic system within the army will be an important weapon to destroy feudal mercenary armies. He personally established the Soldiers' Committee, implemented equality between officers and soldiers in politics and economics, and established a new democratic unity relationship within the people's army. In the resolution of the Gutian meeting, he also clearly stipulated the principle of "strict central guidance-based democratic life in the organization". During the Anti-Japanese War, he further stated that internal democracy in the army is an important factor in sustaining a prolonged war. Due to the establishment of a democratic system within the army, the aim of unity between officers and soldiers has been achieved, and the army has greatly increased its fighting capacity, and the long-term brutal war can be sustained. During the liberation war, he further summarized the experience of our army, wrote the article "Democracy Movement in the Army", and made a profound discussion on the purpose and method of internal democracy in the army. He pointed out: "The policy of internal political work in the army is to mobilize soldiers, masses, commanders, and all workers to achieve three major goals through the democratic movement under centralized leadership: high political unity, improvement of living conditions, and improvement of technical and tactical skills. "Political democracy means parity and unity between officers and soldiers and unity between superiors and subordinates. Through criticism and self-criticism, a high degree of political unity is achieved. Economic democracy is where representatives elected by soldiers have the right to assist (not surpass) the company leader in managing the company's food supply, implementing economic openness, and achieving the goal of improving life. Military democracy is the mass line of military work. During military training, there is mutual teaching between officers and soldiers and between soldiers. During combat, under the guidance of the company leader, soldiers are mobilized to discuss tactical and technical issues. Hence, the three principles of democracy are a vivid manifestation of the mass line in the construction of our army.


Implementing democracy within the military, we must properly handle the relationship between democracy and centralism. Our army is a highly centralized and unified combat collective, which not only needs to have democracy, but also needs to have a high level of centralization. Mao Zedong pointed out: These are two contradictory aspects of a unity, they are contradictory and unified, we should not emphasize one aspect while denying the other. We must both promote democracy in the military and prevent extreme democratization and anarchy; we must emphasize centralization and oppose militarism and commandism. In short, the democracy we implement in the military is democracy under centralized guidance, which is fundamentally different from bourgeois democracy. The three main disciplines and eight points of attention are important guarantees for our army's unity and combat. Discipline is the guarantee of implementing the line. The strict discipline of the People's Army is based on the political consistency and high consciousness of all officers and soldiers, and is a revolutionary discipline that serves the fundamental interests of the people. There is a fundamental difference from the old army discipline. The Three Rules and Eight Points set by Mao Zedong for the army are the basic guidelines for the entire army's actions, fully demonstrating the essence of the People's Army's conscious maintenance of the masses' interests.

When the party establishes military discipline, there are two fundamental starting points: one is to safeguard the interests of the people; the other is to consolidate and enhance the combat effectiveness of the troops.

As early as after the Autumn Harvest Uprising in the Hunan-Jiangxi border area in September 1927, Mao Zedong demanded that the officers and soldiers of the Autumn Harvest Uprising treat the people with politeness, fairness in buying and selling, not to exploit labor, not to beat people, and not to scold others. In October, Mao Zedong, in view of some problems in the implementation of discipline by the then uprising troops, announced three disciplines to the troops: ①Obey orders in all actions; ②Don’t take a single sweet potato from the masses; ③The confiscation from landlords should be turned over to the state. The implementation of these three disciplines effectively enhanced the unity within the army and between the military and civilians. After the troops entered Jinggangshan, because of continuous marching and fighting and scattered activities, there were instances of indiscipline. In early January 1928, after the Red Army occupied the county seat of Suichuan, Mao Zedong promptly summarized the experience of doing mass work, and then proposed six precautions: ①Close the door; ②Tie the straw; ③Speak politely; ④Buy and sell fairly; ⑤Return borrowed goods; ⑥Compensate for damaged things. In April 1928, after the uprising troops arrived in Shatian Village, Guidong County, Hunan Province, Mao Zedong formally announced the three major disciplines and six points of attention to all officers and soldiers. "Don't take a sweet potato from the masses" was changed to "Don't take anything from the workers and farmers." In 1929, when Mao Zedong was leading the Fourth Red Army to march to southern Jiangxi and western Fujian, he again changed the six attitudes into eight points of attention, adding "Bathing to avoid women", "Do not search the pockets of prisoners of war". Later, according to the development of the situation and the practical experience of the troops, "Do not take anything from the workers and farmers" was changed to "Do not take a single needle or thread from the masses"; "The confiscation from landlords should be turned over to the state" was changed to "Do not beat or scold people", "Do not damage crops"; "Bathing to avoid women" was changed to "Do not harass women"; "Do not search the pockets of prisoners of war" was changed to "Do not abuse prisoners of war". In October 1947, when the War of Liberation entered a critical period of strategic counter-offensive, in order to strengthen discipline and win the nationwide victory, the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China and Mao Zedong collected opinions from various troops, revised and standardized the content of the "Three Main Rules and Eight Points of Attention", and the Headquarters of the Chinese People's Liberation Army issued the "Instructions on Re-Issuing the Three Main Rules and Eight Points of Attention" drafted by Mao Zedong in Jia County, Shaanxi, to the entire army, requiring the entire army to "educate deeply" and "implement sternly". 

The "Three Main Rules and Eight Points of Attention" mainly manifests in its regulation of the political discipline, military discipline, and mass discipline of the People's Army, reflecting the disciplinary features of the People's Army.

Political discipline is the standard for military personnel's political behavior and speech, and is an important guarantee in adjusting the relationship between the army and the class and its party, standardizing for which class and its party the army serves, and which class and its party lead the army. "Obey orders in all actions" is the most important part of political discipline.



When Mao Zedong led the Autumn Harvest Uprising troops to conduct the Sanwan Reorganization, he began to establish the Party's organizations and representative systems in the army, and established the principle of "building branches at the company level." A month later, he proposed three disciplines, the first of which was obedience in all actions. Despite numerous modifications to the "Three Major Disciplines and Eight Points of Attention," this principle has always been preserved, and is listed as the first of the "Three Major Disciplines and Eight Points of Attention." It vividly reflects the nature of the People's Army and its dedication to serving the people wholeheartedly, embodying the principle that the Party commands the gun, never allowing the gun to command the Party. "Obedience in all actions," primarily means that the army must obey the command of the Party and submit to the leadership of the Party. The People's Liberation Army of China is the army of the people, established and led by the Communist Party of China, and its leaders at all levels carry out their duties and complete tasks under the leadership of the Party's organizations at the same level. Thus, obeying the Party's command and obeying the command of administrative leaders is consistent.

The three major disciplines constitute the system of disciplinary content of the People's Liberation Army, providing a standard for military action and an important guarantee for the army to complete training, duty, combat readiness, and other tasks in peacetime, and combat tasks in wartime. Strengthening and enhancing combat power is the starting point and ending point of all work in the People's Army; therefore, the army must have the strictest military discipline and must reinforce military discipline. "Obedience in all actions," "all captured materials must be turned in," "no mistreatment of prisoners," implementing these disciplines earnestly will play a significant role in cultivating the army's organizational discipline, implementing prisoner policies, and disintegrating enemy armies. As revolutionary soldiers, one must be loyal to their position, dedicate themselves to the defense of the nation, and consciously cultivate their professional discipline, that is military discipline.

Mass discipline is the standard for adjusting military-civilian relationship behaviors. The People's Liberation Army of China is the People's Army dedicated to serving the people wholeheartedly. The nature and purpose of the People's Army require it to be deeply rooted among the people, sharing weal and woe, blending like milk and water, depending on each other like fish and water, and closely connected in mind. The mass discipline of not offending even the slightest hair is the invaluable heritage that guarantees the People's Army is invincible in battle.

The "Three Major Disciplines and Eight Points of Attention" contain a total of eleven items, eight of which are regulations concerning mass discipline. For example, "do not take a single needle or thread from the masses," "speak politely," "trade fairly," "return borrowed items," "compensate for damages," "do not hit or swear at people," "do not damage crops," "do not harass women," and so on, highlight the People's Army's fundamental stance and attitude of serving the people, loving the people, and respecting the people.

Political discipline, military discipline, and mass discipline are all important components of the "Three Major Disciplines and Eight Points of Attention", and form an interconnected whole. Political discipline plays a leading role, providing fundamentals and direction, constraining and influencing the implementation of other disciplines; military discipline is the main body of army discipline; mass discipline is determined by the nature of the People's Army.

Chapter 4: Thoughts on People's War

I. Soldiers and Civilians are the foundation of victory


The People's War ideology of the Communist Party of China is based on the firm belief that the people are the decisive force in a revolutionary war, representing the fundamental interests of the majority of the people. It is a product of the basic principles of dialectical materialism and historical materialism, combined with China's war practices, and is the fullest embodiment of the Party's mass line in the revolutionary war. 
Historical materialism believes that the people are the creators of world history and the decisive force in human social activities, development, and change. Any major societal activity cannot be separated from the participation of the people, and its ultimate outcome is also determined by the will and power of the people. Mao Zedong summarized this idea succinctly, "The people, and only the people, are the driving force in the making of world history." He creatively applied this idea to the field of war, laying a solid foundation for the theory of the People's War. As early as the period of the land revolution war, Mao Zedong pointed out: "What is the real iron wall? It is the masses, the millions who truly support the revolution. This is the real iron wall, which cannot be broken by any power, completely unbreakable. The reactionaries cannot break us, but we can break the reactionaries. By uniting millions around the revolutionary government, developing our revolutionary war, we can defeat all reactionaries and win over the whole of China." During the Anti-Japanese War, in the face of the outrageous aggression by Japanese imperialism, Mao Zedong, as a proletarian revolutionary, insightfully pointed out: "The deepest source of the power of war lies in the people. The main reason why Japan dares to bully us lies in the unorganised state of the Chinese people. Once we overcome this defect and place Japanese invaders in front of our tens of millions of people who have stood up, we will frighten this wild bull into a big jump at our call, and this wild bull must be burned to death. With the beginning of the liberation war, Mao Zedong clearly pointed out: the people determine the victory or defeat of the war.
The reason why the masses are the source of war power is that war, as a special process of human social activity, ultimately depends on the participation of the people.
The masses are the source of manpower in war. Manpower is the foundation of military power. A key condition for the strength of military power is the numerical superiority of the army. War history shows that when the quality of the warring parties is equal, whoever has the numerical advantage is more likely to win. The people are the source of soldiers, without the people, the army is not strong. To establish a numerically superior army, the masses are the source of troop strength. The reason why our army was able to win in various revolutionary wars was mainly due to the fact that the people were able to continuously deliver new forces to the troops. In the Liaoshen Campaign, farmers in the northeast enthusiastically joined the army and fought, forming 80 second-line corps, about 300,000 people, continuously replenishing our army. In the Huaihai Campaign, the Communist Party of China mobilized 168,000 people to join the army, ensuring the victory of the decisive battle. Marshal Chen Yi passionately sang about the great power of the people, writing in "Remembering the Front Line of Huaihai" the verse "Hundreds of thousands of civilian workers walk impassably, war-horses and high carts carry grain, rotate with the army from west to east, strive to stand on the front line." General Su Yu praised the people as the "inexhaustible source" of the People's Army defeating the enemy.


The people are the source of material power for war. War is a competition of material strength; without certain material conditions, a war cannot be waged, and the most substantial source of material power for war comes from the people. The people are the producers of war supplies. This special social activity of war objectively requires people to invest their labor and materials in the production needed to wage war. With the development of the war, the demand for supplies continues to increase. In a certain sense, whoever can produce more advanced weapons and equipment, whoever can store more war supplies, can support a longer war time and win the victory of the war. The considerable demand for supplies in war cannot be separated from the production of the people. The people are not only the producers of war materials, but also the ones who deliver these supplies to the frontlines. During the three major battles fought by our army in Liaoshen, Huaihai, and Pingjin, more than 5 million civilian workers were mobilized. They used backward transportation means to overcome various difficulties and send a large amount of combat supplies to the frontlines, meeting the needs of the war. Mao Zedong once lamented that our victory in the War of Liberation was mainly due to the support of the 160 million people in the north. "As long as we rely on the people, firmly believe that the creativity of the masses is timely and reliable, and thus trust the people and integrate with the people, then we can overcome any difficulty, and no enemy can overwhelm us, but will be overwhelmed by us".

The great power of war also lies in the people's support or opposition. The outcome of a war certainly depends on the support of human and material resources, but it is even more dependent on the stance of the people. Regardless of whether it is a just war or an unjust war, it is closely related to the interests of the people. The different purposes of war determine the people's attitude towards war. How the people treat a war determines the amount of manpower and material resources invested in the war, determines the degree of proactive ability of the people in the war, determines the ability to overcome the difficulties of war and persist in combat, and ultimately determines the outcome of the war. Mao Zedong once clearly pointed out: Chiang Kai-shek's military advantage is only a temporary phenomenon, only a temporary factor; American imperialist assistance is also only a temporary factor; Chiang Kai-shek’s anti-people nature of the war and the direction of public sentiment, on the other hand, is a constant factor; and in this respect, the People's Liberation Army has the advantage. The patriotic and just revolutionary nature of the People's Liberation Army's war is bound to gain the support of the people of the whole country. This is the political foundation for defeating Chiang Kai-shek. Mao Zedong revealed the law of war development from the perspective that the justice of a war determines the public sentiment, and the public sentiment is a constantly effective factor in war. Zhu De, in his article "How the Chinese People Defeated American Imperialism's Armed Chiang Kai-shek Reactionary", also affirmed this from the perspective of summarizing historical experience. He pointed out: Chiang Kai-shek, the running dog of American imperialism, so rapidly and tragically perished, it is not an accident. This is the inevitable ending of the reactionaries who ignore the will of the people and the power of the people. This is Chiang's inevitable ending - as an adventurer who looked at only his temporary surface strength in the military but did not see his political isolation, carried out actions against the people. This is the historical judgement that should have been made by Chiang Kai-shek's bloody reactionary rule in China for 22 years and by the imperialists in China for more than a hundred years. The Revolutionary War in China was able to receive the active support of the masses because the purpose of the Revolutionary War fundamentally conforms to the interests of the masses. The direction of public sentiment is invincible.

Second, The rural revolutionary base is the strategic base for persisting in a protracted people's war.
Establishing a rural revolutionary base is an important part of Mao Zedong's People's War Theory...



During the Land Revolution War period, he repeatedly emphasized the importance of implementing "armed separatism of workers and peasants", and criticized the roving rebel thought. Later, in the article "Strategic Issues of Anti-Japanese Guerrilla War", he systematically discussed the idea of establishing bases. He pointed out: Rural revolutionary bases are the strategic base for people's war to carry out strategic tasks and achieve the goal of preserving and developing themselves and eliminating and expelling enemies. Without such a strategic base, the implementation of all strategic tasks and the realization of war goals would lose their support. During the Liberation War, when our army had shifted from strategic defense to strategic offense, Mao Zedong still instructed our troops advancing into the enemy-occupied areas to establish solid revolutionary bases in the deep behind enemy lines. Why is it necessary to establish a base in a people's war?

Firstly, fundamentally, this is determined by the long-term and brutal characteristics of China's revolutionary war. Mao Zedong pointed out: "The enemy of China's revolution is extraordinarily strong. Not only does it have powerful imperialism, but also powerful feudal forces, and there are reactionary elements of the bourgeoisie who collude with imperialism and feudal forces and oppose the people for a certain period." They hold political, economic, and military power, and use naked violence to oppress, exploit Chinese people and suppress revolutionaries and the revolutionary masses. The revolutionary forces are quite weak. Chinese people do not have any political freedom or economic strength. It is difficult to fight decisively against the enemy militarily for a while. Precisely because the enemy is extraordinarily strong, the power of the Chinese revolution cannot become a force to finally defeat the enemy without a long period of accumulation and training. Also, because the enemy's suppression of the Chinese revolution is extraordinarily brutal, the revolutionary forces cannot maintain their positions and capture the enemy’s positions without a long period of training to demonstrate their tenacity. The long-term nature and brutality of the Chinese revolution have determined that the focus of the revolutionary struggle should not be placed in cities heavily guarded by the enemy, but should be in rural areas where enemy forces are relatively weak.  

Secondly, the revolution war in our country is essentially a peasant war under the leadership of the proletariat. To carry out people's war, it is necessary to mobilize and rely on peasants. Only by establishing a base in rural areas, can we lead farmers to carry out a deep land revolution, so that farmers can address their immediate interests through land struggle, recognize the leadership of the Communist Party, trust the revolution, and establish a solid alliance between workers and peasants. In this way, we can fully mobilize farmers to join the people's war. While emphasizing that China's proletariat is the leader and the most fundamental driving force of the Chinese revolution, Mao Zedong also pointed out that the Chinese proletariat also has its own inevitable weaknesses, such as fewer numbers, younger ages, and the power of urban proletariat alone cannot win the victory of the Chinese revolution. The Chinese proletariat must rely on their most staunch ally-the peasant class to fulfill its historical mission.



More than 90% are poor peasants and middle peasants, of which the poor hired peasants account for 70%. They suffer from the oppression and exploitation of feudalism and imperialism. Especially the poor hired peasants who make up 70% of the total number of peasants, who basically have no land or insufficient land, are the semi-proletariat in the countryside, are the broadest driving force of the Chinese revolution, are the natural and most reliable allies of the proletariat, and are the main force of the Chinese revolutionary team. As early as March 1927, he put forward the seriousness of the peasant problem as the first question in his "Investigation Report on Peasant Movement in Hunan". In 1928, in "Why Can China's Red Power Exist?" and "The Struggle of Jinggangshan", he proposed that the Chinese revolution must combine armed struggle with land revolution and must establish revolutionary bases in the countryside. In 1930, in "A Spark Can Start a Prairie Fire", he further pointed out that the establishment and development of the Red Army guerrillas and the red areas are the most important form and inevitable result of the peasant struggle under the leadership of the proletariat in semi-colonial and semi-feudal China. He criticized the view that opposes the leadership of the proletariat and the role of the peasants as the main force of the revolution, and pointed out that in the semi-colonial Chinese revolution, only when the peasant struggle has not been led by workers can it fail, and that the peasant struggle does not exceed the influence of workers and is not detrimental to the revolution itself. Therefore, the armed struggle of the Chinese Communist Party is a peasant war under the leadership of the proletariat, which determines that the vast rural areas where the peasants are located should become the starting points and footholds for the victory of the Chinese democratic revolution. The rural encirclement of cities is the inevitable trend and result of this peasant revolutionary war.
Thirdly, the revolutionary army, in order to defeat the enemy and avoid decisive battles with powerful enemies when power is insufficient, must consolidate and develop strategic bases, accumulate and strengthen revolutionary forces, so as to create conditions for the final attainment of the entire victory of the revolutionary war in a long-term battle.
Mao Zedong pointed out: "What is the base of guerrilla warfare? It is the strategic base on which guerrilla warfare relies to accomplish its strategic tasks, to achieve the goal of preserving and developing itself, eliminating and driving away the enemy. Without such a strategic base, the execution of all strategic tasks and the realization of the purposes of war will lose their support. No rear action is the characteristic of guerrilla warfare in the rear of the enemy, because it is separated from the total rear of the country. However, without a base, guerrilla warfare cannot survive and develop for a long time, and this base is also the rear of guerrilla warfare." He pointed out that due to the large number of roaming elements in the Red Army and the existence of large roaming masses in the country, especially in the southern provinces, the political thought of brigandage was produced in the Red Army. This kind of thought is manifested in: ① unwilling to do hard work to establish a base, to establish the power of the people, and to expand political influence from this, but only to expand political influence by the method of mobile guerrilla warfare. ② To expand the Red Army, it is necessary to take a route of "recruiting soldiers and buying horses" and "recruiting surrender and admitting betrayal", not to go by the route of expanding local red guards and local red armies to expand the main red army. They are impatient to struggle hard with the masses, only hoping to go to big cities to have a big meal and drink. All these manifestations of brigandage thinking greatly hinder the Red Army from carrying out its correct tasks, so it is an important goal to clear up brigandage thinking in the ideological struggle within the Red Army party. It should be recognized that the brigandage of Huang Chao and Li Zicheng in history is not allowed by today's environment. He later pointed out: "Although the base is small, it has great political power, standing against the huge Kuomintang regime, giving a great difficulty to the Kuomintang's offensive militarily, because we have the support of peasants." Therefore, Mao Zedong pointed out the correct method to solve the problem of the strategic base of the people's guerrilla warfare, which is to establish the revolutionary base in the countryside.
The revolutionary base in the countryside is a great creation of the Chinese Communist Party in the revolutionary war.



"Within a country, amidst the encirclement of white regimes, one or several small pockets of red political power emerge – this is unique to China in the current world." It is determined by the specific rules of the Chinese revolutionary war and is a significant development in the Marxist ideology of people's war. With a revolutionary base, the basic conditions for self-preservation, self-development, and enemy elimination exist; a guaranteed human and material support will be available for long-term warfare. The small Red Army will have a relatively stable environment for training and enhancing its combat effectiveness, and can choose favorable battlefields to attack and annihilate the enemy with various forms of struggle, with the cooperation of local masses.

III. Structure of Armed Forces in People's War

Relying on the masses for the people's war, great efforts must be made to organize and arm the masses, and to mobilize their participation in the war to the greatest extent. Our Party, during the war years with armed struggle at the core, through hard practice, formed a unique system of three methods of armed forces in the people's war. Combining regular armies and mass armed organizations, major corps, and local corps, and armed and non-armed masses. These three combinations not only solved the problem of mutual cooperation in combat and the coordination of front and rear, but also solved the problem of development and strengthening of the people's army and the consolidation and construction of revolutionary bases.

First, the combination of regular army and mass armed organizations.

A regular army refers to the troops included in the formal establishment of the people's army in various historical periods, with a unified command system and uniform. Mass armed forces primarily refer to guerrilla teams, militias, and other armed organizations. Guerrilla teams and militias are irregular armed organizations that strike at the enemy in enemy-occupied areas, in a dispersed, mobile, and raiding manner. They are characterized by compact personnel, simple organization, light equipment, and flexible action. The combination of a regular army and guerrilla teams is determined by the fact that the Chinese revolutionary war is largely a guerrilla war, and is also required to unleash the power of the armed masses in the war.

Mao Zedong believed that for a people's war, there must be a strong army, and at the same time, a wide variety of people's armed organizations must be established, combining the regular army with the mass armed. He pointed out that "this army is powerful also because it has such a massive organization of people's self-defense forces and militia to cooperate with it in combat," "without the cooperation of these mass armed forces, it is impossible to defeat the enemy." This shows that the people's army and the mass armed are like a car's two wheels, indispensable. The people's army is the backbone of the people's war, and the mass armed organizations are its broad basis.

With this understanding, the Chinese Communists have always, on the one hand, made great efforts to create and expand the people's army, and on the other hand, stressed the establishment and development of armed mass organizations during the organization and leadership of the revolutionary war. During the Red Army period, every revolutionary base organized the Red Guards. During the land revolution war, Mao Zedong stressed the development and expansion of mass armed forces and advocated for the militarization of the countryside. He pointed out that the Red Army should help the Red Guards and workers and farmers' rebel squads with weapons, and as much as possible, help the people to arm themselves without weakening the Red Army's fighting strength. Before the first counter-encirclement campaign, under Mao Zedong's deployment, the Red Guards, Young Pioneers, Chastising Squads, and Red Army Reserve Teams were widely established in the base areas, and the unified command institutions of the people's armed forces as well as the stretcher, transport, traffic, and other war service organizations were established. After the victory of the first counter-encirclement campaign, to prepare for the enemy's another encirclement, Mao Zedong not only corrected the erroneous practice of the then left-wing leaders to "concentrate all guns in the Red Army," restored the local troops but also vigorously expanded the mass armed forces.



Red guerrilla forces were established in the white area, and red guard camps (companies), independent camps, etc., were established in counties and districts along the border. Detailed discussions and regulations were made on the mission, organization, training, and tactics of these armed forces, which further improved their military and political quality, thus strongly cooperating with the Red Army to crush the enemy's subsequent several "sieges". Therefore, Mao Zedong pointed out: People's guerrilla warfare and the main Red Army complement each other like left and right hands. "Without the people's guerrilla warfare, the main Red Army is like a one-armed general. In terms of the people's conditions in the base area, specifically, especially for combat, this means the people who are armed. The enemy regards it as a fear, mainly on this point." During the Anti-Japanese War, all young people who met the conditions in each anti-Japanese base joined the mass armed organization voluntarily and without leaving their posts. By the later stages of the Anti-Japanese War, the militia in the liberated areas had grown to 2.2 million people, and the People's Self-Defense Army had grown to nearly 10 million people. By the time of the Liberation War, the militia organizations in the liberated areas had grown to 5.5 million. Zhu De, in discussing the huge role of mass armament in people's war, pointed out: The huge militia force in the liberated area is unprecedented in the history of our army. We have learned to organize the militia, which is of great importance. Once the militia is organized, it either works with the regular army or fights independently. The production movement of the people in the liberated areas, the defense of the militia has contributed greatly, many enemy bases behind the enemy have been recovered, the militia's encirclement has played a great role. At the same time, the People's Self-Defense Militia also generally undertakes production tasks, which combines fighting with production, force with labour, and if such tasks are implemented, many old forms in the countryside have been transformed.

Second, the combination of main forces and local forces.
The people's army, in accordance with the needs of the struggle, divides itself into the main force and the local force. Mao Zedong pointed out that this division is also a factor in the strength of the people's army.
The main force has high centralization and strong organizational discipline, and has good weapons and equipment. It is not restricted by a fixed area, and can carry out strategic tasks across regions at any time according to the needs of the national strategy, conduct large-scale campaigns and even strategic decisive battles with the cooperation of local forces and militias, and annihilate large enemy groups. The local forces are units operating within a certain range in the country. It cooperates with the militia to defend the local area and strike at local enemies. The local army is an important link between the main force and mass armed organizations, and is an important arm for the development of our army, the strengthening of people's strength, and the implementation of people's war. In combat, it can undertake important tasks with the main force and play a pillar role in the local people's struggle against the enemy. In terms of connecting with the masses, the majority of the soldiers are locally born and raised, familiar with the local geographical environment and folk customs, conducive to merging with the local masses, conducive to taking root among the people, so they can more effectively mobilize and organize the masses to participate in and support the people's war. In terms of expanding the army, it is more convenient to locally organize and recruit militia and masses to join the army and participate in the war. When necessary, it can be transformed into the main force.
The tasks borne by the main and local forces are each emphasized, but their combat objectives are the same. Only by closely combining the two can we strike the enemy more effectively.



Mao Zedong has always attached great importance to the construction and combination of the main force corps and the local force corps. He pointed out: "The reason why this army is powerful is because it divides itself into the main force corps and the local force corps. The former can execute super-local combat missions at any time, and the duties of the latter are fixed in coordination with the militia, self-defence forces defending the local area and attacking the local enemy. This division has won the sincere support of the people. Without this correct division, for example, if only the role of the main force corps is paid attention to and the role of the local force corps is neglected, then under the conditions of the Chinese liberation areas, it would be impossible to defeat the enemy." During the period of the Agrarian Revolutionary War, some people only valued the development of the red army's main force corps and did not value the building of local armed forces. Mao Zedong criticised this erroneous thinking. He first affirmed the importance of building the main force corps of the red army, pointing out that "if there are only local red guards and no formal red army, then they can only deal with door-to-door gangs and cannot deal with the formal white army. Therefore, even if there are good workers and peasants, if there is no formal armed force of considerable strength, it is absolutely impossible to create a situation of separatism, let alone a long-term and increasingly developing separatist situation." At the same time, Mao Zedong attaches great importance to the construction of local armed forces, and clearly stipulated that assisting the development of local armed forces is one of the major tasks of the Red Army. Mao Zedong believed that with the combined cooperation of the Red Army and local armed forces, it could better strike at the enemy and achieve victory. When summing up the experience of the Jinggangshan struggle, he said: "After more than a year, we have created local armed forces with rich combat experience, which is very rare; this local armed force, plus the strength of the Fourth Army of the Red Army, is invincible to any enemy." During the Anti-Japanese War, Mao Zedong further expounded on this view, requiring the Eighth Route Army and the New Fourth Army to immediately help the local people organise local troops and local corps led by local cadre whenever they arrived at a place. Then, it can produce main forces and main corps led by local people. In terms of the construction of local corps, in order to adapt to the needs of the struggle against the enemy, he also required the organisation of well-trained armed work teams, which are relatively healthy in military, political, and civil work, to go deep into the enemy's rear and strike at the enemy, mobilise the people's anti-Japanese struggle, and effectively cooperate with the front-line combat of all anti-Japanese bases. In order to strengthen the local armed forces, during the Anti-Japanese War, the Eighth Route Army and the New Fourth Army even adopted the method of localisation of the main force units in some areas. During the most difficult period of the Anti-Japanese War, the Eighth Route Army and the New Fourth Army, in accordance with the spirit of the instructions of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China, streamlined the main force and let at least one-third of the main force down to various military divisions, independent regiments, and guerrilla generals. In such a way, the military and political quality of the local army was improved and the construction of the base area was consolidated. In the later stages of the Anti-Japanese War, some local forces were assembled under certain conditions and transformed into the main force corps to complete large-scale regular combat missions. During the Liberation War, the method of timely upgrading of local troops was adopted, which quickly expanded the main force corps of the People's Liberation Army to one million people, creating important conditions for quickly winning the war.

Thirdly, the combination of armed masses and unarmed masses.
To bring out the power of the people's war, it is necessary to arm the masses and create conditions for direct participation of the people in the war. However, it is not enough to have only armed masses because they cannot be the whole or even the majority of the people. Most people are not armed, and it is equally important to be able to organize their power indirectly into the war. Only by combining armed and unarmed masses can we truly form a people's war in which everyone participates. Therefore, the combination of armed masses and unarmed masses refers to the overall combination of the people's war.


The establishment of mass armed organizations and non-armed mass groups, involving all the people in organizations associated with the cause of people's war, is the key link to closely combine the two. That is to say, on the one hand, we must establish mass armaments such as militias and self-defense teams, and at the same time widely establish mass groups such as trade unions, farmer's associations, student unions, women's associations, and children's groups, mobilizing all non-armed masses to show their strength under the leadership of the party and the revolutionary government for the victory of people's war. 

The combination of armed and non-armed masses is largely demonstrated through the combination of armed and non-armed struggles. Armed masses have certain military qualities, control weapons, and can fully bring into play the role of weapons. Therefore, they are the basic force of the people's war. The role of unarmed masses in supporting the front line and long-term revolutionary warfare cannot be ignored. They are an indispensable force in the revolutionary war. First, non-armed masses can "enthusiastically undertake various tasks to support the army", that is, the work of supporting the front line usually mentioned. They support the regular army by mobilizing people to join the army, transporting food for the army, providing favorable treatment to soldiers' families, and helping the army solve material difficulties, etc. They also support the militias and guerrilla forces, for instance, mobilizing the masses to participate in these forces, assisting them in launching attacks, reconnaissance, eliminating spies, guarding, transporting and protecting the injured, etc., all of which belong to the direct assistance to the military operations. During the three major battles of the Liberation War, under the slogan "Fully support the frontline, everything for victory", more than five million civilian workers were recruited nationwide, and the ratio of our army to civilians reached one soldier per civilian, one soldier per two civilians, or even one soldier per three civilians. This true people's war is rare in world war history. Besides, non-armed masses can also "enthusiastically engage in political, economic, cultural, and health construction works", which refers to various construction works in base areas. Without the mass construction in politics, economy, culture, education, and health in the base areas, there would be no basis for the people's war.

In the people's war, on the one hand, the army supports various struggles of the people through operations, and on the other hand, the people cooperate with the army in various struggles (political, economic, cultural, traffic, and military). Without this cooperation, victory in the revolutionary war cannot be achieved. It should be emphasized here that mobilizing the masses to join the war is not only an organizational and military issue but also requires corresponding political and economic policies to ensure that the people can control politics and gain actual economic benefits. Zhu De, in his "Discussion on the Battlefield in the Liberated Area", pointed out when implementing the above two correct policies in the liberated areas: "Military is related to politics and economy. The basic content of people's war is mass war, and all the above political and economic things are needed to carry out this kind of mass war. "

In summary, the armed force system of the people's war is an important part of the people's war ideology. It not only provides a solid foundation for the people's army to replenish and ensure the quality of soldiers, but also allows the main force to receive strong support from various forms of armament in the battle, forming the ever-reaching net of the people's war. The reason why our army is powerful is that the three-in-one armed force system is a very important factor.



Section 5: The Strategy and Tactics of People's War
I. The Strategic Thinking of Active Defense 
The strategy and tactics of the People's War of the Communist Party of China were born and developed in the practice of the Chinese Revolutionary War. For a long period of the Chinese Revolutionary War, we were in a weaker position facing a stronger enemy. Whether the enemy was the reactionary faction of the Kuomintang or the Imperial Japan or U.S imperialism, their military power and economic power far surpassed ours. However, we held an absolute advantage in terms of politics. Under the leadership of the Communist Party, our war was a progressive and just revolutionary war, while the enemy's war was regressive, unjust, and reactionary. Our soldiers were widely supported by the people and were in high spirits. The basic starting point of the party's strategic and tactical thinking is to fully exert subjectivity, guide the war in a profitable and harmless way based on the material conditions, and aim to defeat a superiorly-equipped enemy with inferior equipment. Starting from this basic idea, a series of military strategies and tactics were formed by our army. 

The Party advocates active defense and opposes passive defense, implements protracted defensive warfare in the strategy, and quick offensive warfare in battles and campaigns. This is the policy of active defense proposed by the party according to the practice of the Chinese Revolutionary War. 

What is active defense, and what is passive defense? Mao Zedong pointed out: "Active defense, also known as offensive defense, is also called decisive defense. Passive defense, also known as pure defense, is actually a false defense. Only active defense is the real defense, which is the defense for counterattack and offense." He believed that active defense is a mutual application of defense and offense in combat, preserve strength through defense, waiting for the opportunity to break the enemy. It is a means to assist the offense or prepare for the transition to offense; whereas passive defense is not for counterattack and offense, in terms of combat form, it only adopts pure defense rather than offensive means.

The strategic thinking of active defense is specifically manifested in protracted defensive warfare in strategic terms and quick offensive warfare in battles and campaigns. Inner and outer lines refer to the scope of the front; protracted and quick refer to the time of combat; defense and offense refer to the form of war. Strategically, on the whole, given the situation of the strong enemy and weak us, our army is forced to carry out long-term defensive warfare on the inner line, in a passive and disadvantageous position. Mao Zedong believed that in order to seize the initiative of the war, to annihilate the enemy's forces, in battles and campaigns, in local circumstances, our army must reverse the situation, and carry out a quick offensive warfare on the outer line. Because only an attack can annihilate a large amount of enemy forces and gradually change the balance of power between the enemy and us. Being quick enables our army to avoid enemy reinforcements and avoid being encircled by the enemy; Being in the outer line allows us to surround the enemy from all directions, achieving the aim to annihilate the defending enemy. In short, only by carrying out quick offensive warfare on the outer line in battles and campaigns can our army shift from strategically passive to actively aggressive in actual combat, gradually annihilating the enemy's forces while preserving ours, and crushing the enemy's repeated "sieges" against our army. How can our army transition from long-lasting defensive warfare on the strategic inner line to quick offensive warfare on the outer line? The key is to adopt the strategy of "Luring the enemy in deep". This is a necessary step taken to preserve strength and wait for the opportunity to break the enemy under the situation of a strong enemy and a weak us.



The necessity and benefits of doing this are: Firstly, "luring the enemy deeper" can enable our army to avoid unfavorable decisive battles with the enemy, and to wait until the situation is favorable before engaging in a decisive battle with the enemy. Secondly, "luring the enemy deeper" allows our army to shrink and concentrate its forces, transforming the strategic weakness of the enemy into our strength in battle, thereby making rapid decisive attacks possible. Thirdly, "luring the enemy deeper" leads the enemy deep into our natural strongholds, like a blind man riding a blind horse, struggling to advance. As a result, the fat are drained to thin, the thin to death, greatly reducing their advantage, while our army is free to move around it like a fish in water, becoming the dominant force strategically and able to seek favorable opportunities for swift attacks. 

These proactive defense strategies derive from the practical experience of the Chinese revolution. During the period of the Land Revolution War, the small Red Army was always faced with powerful attacks from the enemy. Our main task then was to figure out how to breach the enemy's blockade. Hence, the main task of active defense was to conserve power, wait for the right moment to break the enemy line, and to disrupt each of the enemy's blockade attempts, in order to survive and ultimately triumph. 

The basic principles of guerrilla warfare, "retreat when the enemy advances, harass when the enemy camps, attack when the enemy is weary, and pursue when the enemy retreats," also known as the "sixteen-character formula," is the original form of proactive defense strategy. 

These principles were concretized in November 1930, just before the first counter-blockade operation in the Central Soviet Area, with the proposal of the strategy of "luring the enemy deeper." During the Long March, after the convergence of the First and Fourth Red Armies in 1935, the strategic guideline of "concentrating the main force to advance northward, annihilating the enemy in large numbers in mobile warfare, and gaining the southern part of Gansu first to create a base in the Shaanxi-Sichuan-Gansu-Soviet Area" was established. 

During the Anti-Japanese War, Mao Zedong profoundly elucidated the temporal characteristics of the Sino-Japanese War, analyzed the fundamental factors of the contradictions between the two sides and revealed the basic law that the Anti-Japanese War was a protracted one, with the final victory belonging to China. Mao envisioned that the Anti-Japanese War would go through three phases: strategic defense, strategic stalemate, and strategic counter-offensive. 

The general strategic guideline of the Anti-Japanese War should be a protracted war. In the first and second phases, the specific strategic guideline is to carry out persistent defensive battles strategically and swift offensive battles tactically; the third phase should be a strategic counter-offensive. Mao pointed out that, when our army is scattered among the enemy in an intricate web and various encirclements, fighting multiple enemy attacks, the main task of active defense is to systematically break up the enemy's encirclement and "clean-up" operations, strengthening military force continually while promoting the expansion and development of our strongholds, thus accumulating strength for a strategic counteroffensive. 

In the early stages of the Liberation War, when the enemy was strong and we were weak, and when the enemy was on strategic offensive while we were on strategic defense, the main task of proactive defense was to avoid the enemy’s vital force, undergo mobile warfare, with the main goal to annihilate as many enemy troops as possible. Mao pointed out that we are capable of defeating Chiang Kai-shek, and the whole party should be fully confident in this. Generally speaking, our method of defeating Chiang Kai-shek lies in mobile warfare. Therefore, the temporary abandonment of certain areas and cities is not only inevitable but necessary. Temporarily giving up certain places and cities is for the purpose of annihilating a large amount of enemy forces, altering the enemy's advantage, and achieving final victory.


He clearly proposed the strategic policy of "Annihilating the enemy's vital forces as the main objective, not taking or keeping territory as the main objective," and put forward the principle and method of operation of "Concentrating superior forces to annihilate the enemy one by one." After the People's Liberation Army gradually gained the strategic initiative and the strategic strength reached a relative balance with the enemy, he proposed to timely turn strategic defense into strategic counterattacks and strategic attacks, and put forward the famous "Ten Military Principles" centered on annihilation warfare. When the conditions for a strategic decisive battle matured, Mao Zedong correctly chose the timing of the decisive battle, determined the direction of the decisive battle, formulated the operational policy of the three major battles of Liaoshen, Huaihai, and Pingjin, and combined large-scale mobile warfare and large-scale positional warfare to annihilate a large number of enemies. In strategic pursuit, he also put forward the principle of operation of implementing large-scale encirclement and circuitous, and the overall strategic guideline of active defense was comprehensively used and developed. In summary, these specific strategic policies and principles of operation proposed by Mao Zedong in various revolutionary wars are the specific implementation and reflection of the overall strategic guideline of active defense in different periods or stages of war. It can be seen that how to implement the overall strategic guideline of active defense does not have a fixed mode, but is constantly developing with the changes in the war situation.

II. Creative use and development of forms of warfare

"The essence of war is the purpose of war, to preserve oneself and annihilate the enemy. However, the forms of war to achieve this goal are mobile warfare, positional warfare, and guerrilla warfare." Adapting to the development and changes of the war situation, based on the growing and declining forces of the enemy and us, and the evolution of the war situation, it is necessary to timely carry out the military strategic transformation centered on changing the main form of operation under the overall goal of preserving oneself and annihilating the enemy. Establishing strategic guidelines that conform to objective reality, selecting appropriate methods of operation, flexibly using various forms of operation, and integrating them closely with each other are important manifestations of Mao Zedong's superb war command art. 

Mobile warfare, positional warfare, and guerrilla warfare, these three forms of warfare, the first two belong to regular warfare, and the latter is irregular warfare. Mobile warfare is the form of offensive operation in which regular troops fight on long battle lines and large battle zones. Positional warfare is defensive operations on fortified positions or field positions, as well as offensive operations against enemies defending fortified positions or field positions. Guerrilla warfare is a dispersed and mobile form of operation, and it is also a form of mass armed struggle. The three have their own characteristics and functions. The characteristic of mobile warfare is to concentrate the superior forces of regular troops, campaigns, and battles. It is offensive and mobile, and plays a main role in annihilating the enemy's vital force, changing the war situation, and finally resolving the fate of the war. The characteristics of positional warfare are that it has ample preparation time, perfect organization work, and long-lasting operations, which play an important role in resisting powerful enemy invasions and attacking enemies in fortified areas. The characteristics of guerrilla warfare are more initiative, flexibility, offensive, quick decision-making, and mobility than mobile warfare, which play a crucial role in cooperating with regular operations and the survival and development of weak forces. 

In the practice of leading China's revolutionary war, the Party conducted in-depth research on the issue of the close integration of the three forms of warfare: guerrilla warfare, mobile warfare, and positional warfare, developed theories about the issue of forms of warfare, and creatively and flexibly used these three forms of warfare. In the long-term practice of the People's Army in China's revolutionary war for more than 20 years, different forms of operation were flexibly used at different historical periods according to different historical conditions and war situations.



In the first three years of the Land Revolution War and during the entire Anti-Japanese War period, guerrilla warfare was the main form of combat; in the later years of the Land Revolution War and during the entire Liberation War period, mobile warfare became the main form of combat; positional warfare became an important form of combat in the later stages of the Liberation War, and the main form of combat in the later stages of the Korean War. According to the development and changes of war situation, the main form of combat was timely switched and the three forms of combat were closely combined to complement each other, and applied flexibly, which gave the powerful force of the people's war the most effective play in war practice. Mao Zedong pointed out as early as in 1938 that "someone says that we only advocate guerrilla warfare, which is nonsense. We have always advocated the combination of mobile warfare, positional warfare, and guerrilla warfare." "According to the experience of fighting for the past seven months, in military terms, if we can use mobile warfare, positional warfare, and guerrilla warfare in a coordinated manner, we can put the enemy army in a very difficult position." During the period when guerrilla warfare was the main form of combat, the People's Army did not reject regular warfare at all. The guiding principle formulated by Mao Zedong for the Eighth Route Army in the Anti-Japanese War was "guerrilla warfare as the basis, but do not slacken the mobile warfare under favorable conditions". In battlefield combat, there is positional warfare in mobile warfare, and mobile warfare in positional warfare. As for the transformation of mobile warfare into positional warfare, or positional warfare into mobile warfare, it is a common occurrence. In the Chinese revolutionary war, our army flexibly applied various forms of combat and organically combined them to create a miracle in the history of human warfare.

III. Formation of combat methods with Chinese revolutionary characteristics

The main goal of our army's combat is to annihilate the enemy's live forces. Concentrating superior forces to annihilate the enemy one by one is our main method of combat. The effect of this tactic is: to annihilate all, and to make a quick decision. Therefore, it is also the basic principle of all our combat principles. The concentration of superior forces and the annihilation of the enemy one by one are dialectically unified. Only by concentrating the superior forces can we achieve the goal of annihilating the enemy one by one; only by annihilating the enemy one by one can we form and maintain the advantage of troops better.

The Chinese revolutionary war was carried out under the condition that the enemy was strong and we were weak, and the enemy was large and we were small, and we were also in a defensive position in the strategic interior for a long period. Therefore, how to concentrate superior forces became more difficult and important. For this reason, starting from the Jiangxi struggle, Mao Zedong has always emphasized concentrating forces and made profound and comprehensive discussions on this. In 1928, he proposed: "Our experience is that almost every time we divide our troops, we fail, but when we concentrate our forces to fight an enemy that is smaller than us, equal to us, or slightly larger than us, we often win." In 1936, when he summed up our army's ten years of land revolution war experience, he made a special topic discussion on the issue of concentrating forces, clearly pointing out: "The basic way to achieve victory in strategic defense is to concentrate forces." Mao Zedong here mainly refers to our army, which is strategically weaker, only when we are good at concentrating superior forces in campaigns and battles, can we change the comparison of enemy and we in the local area and make me change from weak to strong; and also change from strategic defense to campaign and battle offense; at the same time also change from strategic interior line to campaign and battle exterior line; thus gaining local superiority and initiative, one by one annihilating the enemy. After winning many victories, the overall situation has also turned to our advantage and initiative. This is: "With less to defeat more, with disadvantage to defeat advantage and win. All start with our own local advantage and initiative, aim at the enemy's local disadvantage and passivity, win one battle, then defeat the rest one by one, the overall situation has turned to our advantage and initiative." During the Liberation War, Mao Zedong further elaborated on the idea of concentrating superior forces and drafted the combat instructions for the Central Military Commission-"Concentrate superior forces and annihilate the enemy one by one", pointing out "This is the main method to defeat Chiang Kai-shek's attack.


"Implementing this method will lead to victory. Violating this method will lead to failure." He further emphasized in his famous "Ten Military Principles": "Concentration of absolute superiority in forces in each battle (two times, three times, four times, sometimes even five times or six times the enemy's forces), encapsulating the enemy from all sides, striving to annihilate them completely, and leaving no escape." He pointed out profoundly, our army’s fight "aims mainly at annihilating enemy's living forces, and not principally at preserving or seizing cities and territories." Because only by annihilating the enemy's living forces can we finally preserve and seize cities and territories. Under the situation where the enemy is strong and we are weak, only in this way can we avoid disadvantageous decisive battles with the enemy and engage in beneficial decisive battles. "The temporary abandonment of some places and cities is not only inevitable but also necessary. Temporarily giving up some places and cities is for the ultimate victory, otherwise, the ultimate victory cannot be achieved." Mao Zedong pointed out: "For people, injuring ten fingers is not as good as chopping off one, and for the enemy, defeating ten of their divisions is not as good as annihilating one." Because when you annihilate the enemies in their established formations, the enemy has difficulty in replenishing, and for every one you annihilate, one less remains. Moreover, such annihilation wars will give the enemy a major psychological blow, discouraging their morale and shaking their military spirit. For us, it can greatly boost the morale of our army and people, and it can replenish our army in terms of manpower, equipment, and supplies. Defeat and exhaustion cannot achieve the aforementioned goals. Of course, this does not deny the significance of defeat and exhaustion under certain conditions. Mao Zedong pointed out: "Generally speaking, moving warfare performs annihilation tasks, trench warfare performs exhaustion tasks, and guerrilla warfare performs both exhaustion and annihilation tasks."

How exactly should we concentrate our forces? How many forces should be concentrated to form an advantage against the enemy? Based on our army's combat experience, the main points are as follows: First, concentrate the main force on the main direction of the battle, try to save forces on the secondary direction, and oppose military egalitarianism. The People's Army has long been in a besieged environment, facing strong and numerous enemies. It must concentrate its main force on the main direction of the battle, and it must not attack in all directions or divide its forces into mouths. Mao Zedong said: "Under conditions where there are strong enemy forces, no matter how many troops there are, there should only be one main use direction at a time, and there should not be two." The so-called concentration of superior forces is to concentrate superior forces on the main direction of the battle at the decisive moment. And on the secondary direction, only a part of the force is contained. Only in this way can a fist be formed, an advantage be created, and victory be ensured. Liu Bocheng pointed out: "For each offensive battle, the main direction of attack must be determined, and the main force must be assembled to strive for victory in the decisive battle. But at the same time, for the secondary direction, another part must contain the enemy, attract their attention and follow-up echelons, thereby ensuring the success of our main force's assault. In other words, we can use one person to twist and fight three enemies in the secondary direction, so that we can withdraw three people in the main direction to beat a single enemy, and strive for overall victory. The party, based on the lessons learned from the People's Army's years of warfare, emphasized during the Liberation War that from campaign deployment to tactical deployment, the principle of concentrating forces to annihilate the enemy one by one must be implemented, and military egalitarianism must be opposed. Mao Zedong pointed out: In terms of campaign deployment, when the enemy uses many brigades (or regiments) to advance in several routes, our army must concentrate absolute superiority in forces, at the right time, first surround and annihilate a brigade (or Regiment) of the enemy's army, with a small number of troops to contain the remaining brigades (or regiments) of the enemy, so that they cannot quickly reinforce the brigade (or regiment) that is being attacked by our army, so that our army can first annihilate this brigade (or regiment), and then, depending up on the situation after the victory, annihilate one to several brigades of the enemy's army, or to retreat and prepare for the next battle. Absolutely do not underestimate the enemy, and therefore evenly divide the troops to deal with the enemy on all sides, so as to be unable to annihilate any side and put oneself in a passive position.



Similarly, in terms of tactical deployment, when our army has already gathered absolute superior forces to surround one of the enemy's routes (a brigade or a battalion), the troops (or units) that our army is responsible for attacking should not attempt to annihilate the surrounded enemy all at once, which would result in evenly distributing forces, attacking everywhere and gaining no significant ground, prolonging time and being ineffective. Instead, our army should concentrate superior forces to choose and fiercely attack one weaker point (not two) from among the enemy's positions, strive for victory, and swiftly expand the result after succeeding, annihilating the enemy one after another.

Secondly, attack the weaker enemy first and appropriately determine the degree of force concentration according to the target of annihilation. Mao Zedong, when discussing about the deployment of concentrating forces to annihilate the enemy one by one, required that the target chosen first in a campaign should "be the weaker among the enemy brigades, or those with less assistance, or those whose geographic location and public sentiment are most advantageous to us and disadvantageous to the enemy". In tactics, it should be to "choose weaker point from among the enemy’s positions (not two)" \Thus, the People's Army is in a stronger position by having more troops confronting the weaker enemy. "First pick up the weak ones to hit", then it is easy to form an advantage, and after defeating the weak enemy, the strong ones also become weak.

In the Chinese revolutionary war, the party always emphasized the implementation of the tactical idea of "first choosing the weak ones to hit" closely related to the degree of concentration of forces. The basic requirement of concentrating superior forces is to be able to "surround the enemy on all sides, strive to annihilate all of them, and not let anyone slip through". Being able to meet this requirement constitutes an advantage. Mao Zedong said: "The concentration of forces we advocate is based on the principle of ensuring absolute or relative superiority in battlefield operations. Against a strong enemy, or in battles of great importance, we should face them with absolutely superior forces”, “against a weak enemy or in battles of less importance, it would be enough to face them with relatively superior forces". This points out that the degree of force concentration should be confident in annihilating the enemy. Among this, you should consider not only forces but also firepower; not only quantity but also quality; both material and psychological factors should be calculated. Besides, there are conditions such as time and place. Only comprehensive consideration would not exaggerate the advantage of one aspect into an overall advantage, so as to achieve the purpose of annihilating the enemy. For example, when fighting a strong enemy, the degree of force concentration should be higher, and when fighting a weak enemy, it could be lower; if our attacking force is weaker, the degree of concentration should be higher;

Thirdly, adopt the strategy of encirclement. The purpose of concentrating forces is to fight annihilation battles, thus, Mao Zedong pointed out: "Annihilation battles and the concentration of superior forces and the strategy of envelopment, are one and the same thing. Without the latter, there would not be the former." Without superior forces, it is difficult to wage annihilation battles. Without envelopment and flanking maneuvers, even an absolutely superior force would still not result in successful annihilation battles. Encirclement and flanking are fundamental principles of annihilation deployment which can make the enemy become completely isolated and unable to escape. Of course, depending on the actual situation of combat, sometimes adopting a three-sided encirclement or two-sided attacks is also permissible. In terms of tactical methods, it is required to adopt actions like outflanking, infiltrating, dividing, and interpenetrating, in order to divide and annihilate the enemy separately.




The application of the principle of annihilating the enemy by concentrating superior forces involves many aspects, such as actively creating and seizing opportunities, meticulously organizing preparations, flexibly applying offensive styles, and the tenacious fighting spirit of the troops. All of these play a significant role in the application of this principle, and should not be neglected at any cost.
IV. Thoughts on Strategic Offense
Strategic offense is one of the basic forms of warfare, which is a full-scale offensive against a strategic defensive enemy. The basic tasks of a strategic offense are to annihilate a large number of enemy troops, occupy strategic areas within enemy territory, and achieve victory in the war. The strategic decisive battle is the climax of the strategic offense, the basic means of implementing the fundamental transformation of war forces, and the operation in which both sides use their main forces to determine the outcome of the war. The strategic offense of the Chinese revolutionary war developed from strategic defense and is usually connected with the strategic counterattack. During the early stage of the Agrarian Revolutionary War and the later stage of the Liberation War, our army went through two strategic offensives that differed in scale and form. One was the strategic offensive implemented by the Red Army towards the peripheries after breaking down the enemy's "surround and annihilate" strategy during the time of the Agrarian Revolutionary War when the enemy was stronger and we were weaker. The purpose was mainly to establish and expand revolutionary bases. This strategic offensive was smaller in scale, limited in purpose, regional in nature, and was conducted repeatedly. The other was the nationwide strategic offensive carried out during the Liberation War which was held when the war situation underwent fundamental changes. Its purpose was to annihilate the enemy's heavy troop groups, overthrow the reactionary rule of imperialism, feudalism, and bureaucrat-capitalism, and liberate the whole of China. When our army switched to the strategic offense, Mao Zedong once said that the revolutionary war of the Chinese people has now reached a turning point. This is the turning point in history where the People's Liberation Army has repelled the offensive of Chiang Kai-shek's reactionary army, backed by the United States, and carried out its offensive, marking the turning point where the rule of imperialism in China has declined and eliminated for over a hundred years.

Looking at the entire conceptual framework, the thinking on strategic offense includes three parts: strategic offense, strategic decisive battle, and strategic pursuit. Regarding the strategic offense, it is usually implemented according to the general laws of war, i.e., when the offensive side becomes disadvantaged and the defensive side becomes advantaged or when the defensive side completely crushes the attack of the other side, which is the turning point into strategic defense. However, the strategic offensive in our army during the period of the Liberation War breaks the normally seen and thought patterns. The strategic offensive was not launched when the comparative strength of the enemy and our troops was roughly balanced or when all of the enemy's offensives were crushed and turned into strategic defense. It is initiated when the enemy still has a great numerical advantage and is still implementing a major offensive, leaving part of the forces to continue defensive measures, while the main force switches to offensive. The main direction of the strategic offensive is not directed toward the main group of the enemy's major offensive, but toward its strategically empty depth and central regions of enemy ruling forces; it is not a typical front-on offensive but a method of launching a long-range attack directly into the enemy's depth.

In the first year of the Liberation War, our army implemented a strategy of inner line operations and achieved great victories in annihilating a large number of enemy regular troops and gained initiative on several battlefields, which significantly altered the war situation in favor of the people. Nonetheless, in this process, we paid a price in casualties and lost large areas of land occupied. At that time, the Kuomintang controlled most of the country's area and population and received full support from American imperialism. Under such circumstances, changing the balance of advantages and disadvantages between the enemy and us by relying solely on the manpower and materials of the liberated areas to annihilate the enemies in the inner line would be extremely difficult.


The strategy adopted by the Kuomintang was precisely to continue to bring the war to the liberated areas, further damaging and consuming the human and material resources of the liberated areas, preventing a long-lasting counter-revolutionary strategy. The CPC central committee judged the situation and based on the victory of the year, determined that the basic task of the following year was to "launch a national counterattack, to hit the main force to the front line, bring the war to the Kuomintang regions, and annihilate the enemy in large numbers on the frontline". To this end, the Central Military Commission formulated the plan of "strike out and strategize the Central Plains", instructing Liu Bocheng and Deng Xiaoping's Jin-Jilu-Yu Field Army of 120,000 people, the first step to attack the enemy in Hebei-Shandong-Henan area and Henan-Anhui-Jiangsu region, the second step to advance towards the Central Plains. According to this overall intention, on the night of June 30, 1947, Liu and Deng's army forced their way across the Yellow River, heralding the beginning of strategic offense. At the same time, the Central Military Commission also made "coordinated operations of the three armies, and restraint of the two wings". Besides Liu and Deng's main force conducting a central breakthrough to Dabie Mountains, the East China Field Army led by Chen Yi and Su Yu was the left rear army moving into Shandong-Henan-Anhui region; the Taiyue Corps led by Chen Mi and others was the right rear army advancing into west Henan. The three powerful forces played a tactical role in the Jiang-Huai-He-Han region, hunting down their enemies. At the same time, our forces in Northwest Shaanxi launched an offensive in Yulin, mobilizing the Kuomintang's Hu Zongnan group to move northward, Shandong's forces launched an offensive in Jiaodong, continuing to lure the enemy in Shandong towards the coast, so as to facilitate the movement of the three armies. Liu and Deng's main force crossed the Longhai Line in early August 1947, reached Dabie Mountains in late August, Chen-Su army moved into southwest Shandong in early August, and Chen's division crossed the Yellow River to enter west Henan in late August. By the end of October, the three main forces had essentially completed their strategic deployment in the Central Plains, pushing the main battlefield of the southern front to the enemy-occupied areas, coordinating with all other battlefields, and reversing the overall war situation. About the strategic final battle, it is the operation where both sides use their main force to determine the outcome of the war. "Only the final battle can resolve who wins and who loses between the two armies". The strategic final battle is the climax of the strategic offensive, "the most intense, complex, changeable, and difficult period of the entire war or campaign; in terms of command, it is the most difficult time". The strategic final battle of the Chinese Revolutionary War began after our army turned to strategic offensive. A year after our army transitioned to a strategic offensive, from September 1948 to January 1949, in just 4 months plus 19 days, through the three major campaigns of Liaoshen, Huaihai, and Pingjin, decisive battles were successfully waged against the enemy. The three major campaigns annihilated a total of 144 divisions (brigades) of regular enemy troops and 29 divisions (equivalent brigades) of irregular troops, with a total of 1.54 million people. The victories in the three major campaigns wiped out Chiang Kai-shek's old base for civil war.
During the strategic final battle, our army accurately seized the timing of the decisive battle. Mao Zedong said that if the time for a final battle has not come, and there is no force for a final battle, one should not recklessly go to battle. Otherwise, victory will definitely not be achieved. On the contrary, if it is too late and the enemy implements a strategic retreat, the decisive battle may not happen. In March 1948, Mao Zedong analyzed in "A Report on the Situation" that of the 250 brigades nominally owned by the enemy in the two lines of north and south, only 180 brigades had not suffered from our army's annihilating attacks, including some new recruits undergoing secondary-line training and some were upgraded or organized from local troops and puppet troops, with weak combat capabilities. The average number of enemy troops per brigade had also dropped from around 8,000 to around 6,500. It's apparent that both the quantity and quality of the enemy's troops were falling sharply. Politically, the Chiang regime was very isolated, and its economy was on the verge of collapse. As for our army, both the quantity and quality had further developed and improved, weapons and equipment had improved, and combat experience had become richer.



In the northeastern region, the Kuomintang army was 550,000 strong, and was besieged in three areas of Changchun, Shenyang, and Jinzhou. Our army, however, reached 700,000 in number, not only surpassing the enemy team, but also possessing a significantly advantageous position. It can be said we had the advantages in both number and strategic placement. The highest command of the Kuomintang army was undecided about whether to retreat or defend in the northeast. All this indicates that the opportunity to initiate a strategic decisive battle in the Northeast battlefront was ripe. If we do not act, the enemy's indecision in withdrawing its troops from the northeast to the interior or the south of the Yangtze River will greatly increase our difficulties in the subsequent battles. The victory in the Liaoshen campaign decimated 470,000 enemy combatants, giving the People's Liberation Army a numerical advantage, and liberating the whole Northeast region, laying the foundation for the liberation of Beijing, Tianjin, and North China. From then, the national battle situation was rapidly declining. The victories in subsequent Huaihai and Pingjin campaigns greatly shortened the original plan of defeating Chiang Kai-shek within five years.

In the strategic decisive battles, our army established different campaign guidelines for different decisive battle targets. The operational guidelines for the Liaoshen campaign were to surround the enemy, seal off the Northeast Kuomintang army, and eliminate them one by one. As soon as the campaign began, Mao Zedong instructed the main force of the Northeast Field Army to focus on controlling the Beining Line, to first take Jinzhou, a strategic point linking the Northeast and North China. It’s the throat of the passage to the interior and "As long as Jinzhou is captured, you will have the initiative, which will be a great victory." The main attack direction of the Liaoshen campaign was directly towards the Beining Line, with the primary focus on the capturing of Jinzhou. Once this strategic intention was realized, the enemy retreat to the mainland from the northeast would be completely sealed off.

The central party proposed different strategic guidelines, for instance, during the Huaihai campaign, where the enemy forces were isolated, the party emphasized the importance of seizing the key points of the enemy's supply lines, effectively cutting off their routes of retreat. Similarly, in the Pingjin Campaign, the party emphasized on surrounding and cutting off key areas, further weakening the enemy's forces.

About strategic pursuits, strategic decisive battles basically determined the fate of the war, but to achieve a complete victory in the war, it is necessary to timely attack the enemy's strategic depth, implement strategic pursuits promptly, and decisively, cleanly, and completely annihilate the enemy, to achieve a complete victory in the war. 

The strategic pursuit in the War of Liberation needed to address two issues: firstly, how to expose the enemy's conspiracy to block the progress of the revolution with deceitful peace talks, and inspire the whole party, the whole army, and all the people to carry on the war of revolution; secondly, what kind of operational policy to adopt, to crossing the Yangtze River, and completely annihilate the remaining military forces of the Kuomintang within the mainland, and not to allow them to stubbornly resist or flee overseas, leaving behind troubles. The former is a political aspect, and the latter is a military aspect, but the two are closely linked. If the former is not done well, it will be detrimental to military victories, and if the latter is not tackled correctly, it will be difficult to end the war swiftly and decisively. The Central Military Commission, led by Mao Zedong, wisely solved these two problems.


After the three major battles of Liaoshen, Huaihai, and Pingjin, the Central Committee of the Party promptly issued the great call to "carry the revolution through to the end" to the entire Party and army, and with both hands of revolution, shattered the enemy's counter-revolutionary forces, timely issued the "order to advance to the whole country", calling for the whole army to bravely advance, to annihilate completely all reactionaries within China who dare to resist, thus liberating all of China. 
Under the command of the Party Central Committee, the People's Army timely disclosed the enemy's false "peace talk" plot, expanded their offensive into the strategic depth of the enemy, carried out the crossing the river campaign, liberated major cities such as Nanjing, Shanghai, Hangzhou, Wuhan, and a large area of Jiangnan, and destroyed the enemy's reactionary ruling center in one fell swoop. After the victory of the crossing the river campaign, Mao Zedong encouraged the entire army to "use their remaining courage to chase the poor enemy, and not to seek fame and become a bully." Subsequently, our army launched an unprecedented strategic chase in the east, south, west, and north. In order to capture the fleeing enemy, Mao Zedong also timely instructed: "Take a great detour, insert yourself behind the enemy, first complete the encirclement, and then fight back." According to this strategy, our army, in a proactive and courageous action, annihilated a large number of enemies in their chase in the south and southwest, thoroughly shattered Chiang Kai-shek's plot to rely on the southwest and plan for a comeback. In the strategic pursuit, some local forces, colluding with Chiang Kai-shek's defeated troops, attempted to take up a favorable position and resist to the end, the army adopted the policy of annihilating them on the spot. The Central Military Commission required the troops to hit hard, divide, surround, and annihilate them one by one. Like our Northwestern Field Army, after annihilating Hu Zongnan's main force, they quickly annihilated local forces such as Ma Bufang and Ma Hongkui, advanced to Xinjiang, and liberated the great Northwest. In the strategic pursuit, I fully exploit the power of political offensive, prompting the enemy to revolt, surrender, or reorganize peacefully, Mao Zedong timely proposed the "three ways" to disarm the enemy, namely the "Tianjin Way", "Beijing Way", and "Suiyuan Way". The "Tianjin Way" is to use combat to deal with the enemy, and relentlessly annihilate all enemies who dare to resist to the end. The "Beijing Way" is to force the enemy to accept a peaceful reorganization under our strong military strike and tight encirclement. The "Suiyuan Way" is to deliberately leave a part of the Kuomintang army intact or largely intact so that our army can concentrate on dealing with the main part of the enemy and then reorganize them at an appropriate time. In my advancement to the southwest and northwest, about 800,000 enemy troops were persuaded to rise up and forced to surrender. This is a great victory of the Party Central Committee's struggle strategy.

The first section: The construction of the party is a great project
I. The construction thought of the Communist Party of China is the inheritance and development of Marxist-Leninist party-building theory
Marx and Engels were the first to propose the theory of establishing a proletarian revolutionary party. Marx pointed out: Only when the working class organizes itself into an independent party opposing all the old parties established by the bourgeoisie can it act as a class. Such party organization by the working class is necessary to ensure the victory of the social revolution and the ultimate goal of this revolution — the elimination of classes. Marx and Engels, in order to guide the revolutionary struggle of the proletariat, established a scientific and complete system of communist thought, and guided the establishment of proletarian revolutionary organizations such as the "Communist League", "First International", and the German Social Democratic Labour Party, initiating a new stage in the revolutionary struggle of the world proletariat and working people, which is their great historical contribution.
However, the era that Marx and Engels were in was a time when the proletariat had already set foot on the historical stage but the revolutionary task of the proletariat was not yet fully mature. After the failure of the revolutions in various Western European countries in 1848, capitalism entered a period of peaceful development.


The Paris Commune uprising in 1871 was the proletariat's first heroic attempt to seize political power. However, the practice of the struggle showed that the objective conditions for seizing political power were not sufficient. The world's first batch of proletarian parties in Europe and America, which were established one after another, become "bankrupt" after various deformities and deteriorations due to the relatively "peaceful" nature of this period that provided nourishment for opportunism. Therefore, at the beginning of the 20th century, history posed the task of creating a new type of proletarian revolutionary party to deal with the matured revolutionary crisis and the leadership of the revolution. It was under these historical conditions that Lenin established a completely new type of proletarian revolutionary party - the Russian Bolshevik Party, and "even created a complete theory on the construction of the proletarian revolutionary party”.

Lenin proposed the task of establishing a new type of proletarian revolutionary party. Lenin pointed out: What we need is a new type of party, a party of another nature. He also said: To transform the old type of party of European parliamentaryism and reformationism, which is merely lightly coated with a layer of revolutionary color, into a truly revolutionary and truly communist new type of party. Lenin emphasized that the party must be new, that is, it must be fundamentally different from the parliamentary and reformist parties of the Second International. 

Although the parties of the Second International were proletarian parties when they were first established, after the death of Engels, they degenerated and became appendages of bourgeois parliamentary groups, thus losing their revolutionary nature and combat effectiveness. They are no longer proletarian revolutionary parties, but reformist parties, old type of parties. Lenin believed that at the beginning of the 20th century it was necessary to establish a new type of proletarian party. This kind of party should be a highly class-conscious, combat-oriented, mass-connected, and disciplined revolutionary party. Only by establishing such a revolutionary party can we meet the needs of history during the era of imperialism, and accomplish the revolutionary task of the proletariat.

Lenin elaborated that the ideological basis of the proletarian revolutionary party must be Marxism and must put principles into practice during construction. When Lenin founded the Bolshevik Party, he wrote works such as "Where to Begin" and "What is to be Done," firmly opposed the opportunism of worker spontaneity, and drafted a line for founding the party, namely establishing an all-Russian political newspaper and advocating Marxism to unify ideological cognition. Lenin said: "We base itself fully on the theory of Marx because for the first time it transformed socialism from utopia into science and laid a solid foundation for this science". 

Lenin clearly stipulated the relationship between the Party and the proletariat and proposed the principle that the ideological unity of the Party must be consolidated by the material unity of the Party's organization. Lenin pointed out that the Party is the advanced detachment of the proletariat, the organized detachment, the highest form of organization of the proletariat. The Party must be composed of the most conscious advanced elements among the proletariat. Party members can only be a minority in the proletariat, never all. The party is organized according to the principle of democratic centralism. Party members must obey unified discipline, maintain party unity, and never allow factional activities. The Party must lead all other organizations of the proletariat. Lenin said: "The proletariat has no other weapon in the struggle for power except organization… The proletariat can and will necessarily become an invincible force because its ideological unity formed on the basis of Marxist principles is consolidated by the material unity of the organization."



The above three points are the main contents of Lenin's party-building theory. They provide the most basic direction for the construction of the proletarian revolutionary party and have universal significance. The Communist Party of China was also founded and developed under the guidance of Lenin's principles of party building.

However, like many universal principles of Marxism-Leninism, the principles of Marxism-Leninism about certain things only reflect the most general rules of development of these things, and they can never encompass all the complexities and diversities of these things in phenomena. Lenin’s party-building thought reflects the most general rules of the development of the proletarian party, but it does not and cannot encompass all the characteristics of the development of the proletariat parties in various countries. Due to the differences in historical conditions in various countries, the establishment and development of the proletarian parties in all countries inevitably have their own characteristics and special laws. Therefore, the theory of party building in Marxism-Leninism is always being enriched and developed with the construction of proletarian parties in various countries. The thoughts and experiences of the Communist Party of China on the construction of the Communist Party of China under the historical conditions of semi-colonial and semi-feudal China are an example of adhering to the universal truth of Marxism-Leninism and the combination, enrichment, and development of the specific practice of the Chinese revolution.

The Communist Party of China was born in the semi-colonial and semi-feudal old China. On one hand, the severity and cruelty of the exploitation and oppression suffered by the Chinese working class are rare in the world, they are the most thorough in revolution and the strongest in combat, providing an excellent class basis for the establishment and development of the party. As Liu Shaoqi said, our party has a clear class consciousness from the moment it was born, and it is leading the Chinese bourgeois democratic revolution from the position of the proletariat, combining the universal truth of Marxism-Leninism with the specific practice of the Chinese labor movement and the Chinese revolution. This renewal provides the Chinese revolution with all the excellent styles of the advanced party of the proletariat. But on the other hand, our party has been established in an eastern big country where the economy and culture are backward and the peasants and petty bourgeoisie make up the majority of the population. Our party is not only surrounded by the petty-bourgeoisie from outside the party, but also the majority of the members inside are of petty-bourgeois background. In addition, under the economic conditions in China, even the working masses and party members are easily influenced by petty-bourgeois thoughts. Therefore, petty-bourgeois ideas are often reflected in various ways in our party. This is inevitable and not surprising. For this reason, the contradiction between the thoughts of the proletarian inside the party and various non-proletarian thoughts, especially petty-bourgeois thoughts, has become the main contradiction within the party. The process of building the Communist Party of China is a process of continuously transforming the petty bourgeois elements within the party and overcoming various non-proletarian thoughts with proletarian ideas.

If we say that before the 1930s, such a situation in the construction of the Communist Party of China was not very prominent because the party was mostly active in cities, then this issue became particularly prominent after the party's focus shifted to rural areas.

After the failure of the Great Revolution, the Communists of China, represented by Mao Zedong, began to go deep into the rural areas to explore a revolutionary path suitable for China's national conditions after the failure of armed uprising in various places. On September 9, 1927, Mao Zedong launched the Autumn Harvest Uprising, and then the team went into the Jinggang Mountains. During the construction of the Jinggangshan Revolutionary Base, Mao Zedong explored the revolutionary path of surrounding cities from the countryside and seizing power by armed force. Mao Zedong pointed out that the Communist Party of China needs to take the path of surrounding cities from the countryside and seizing power by armed force.



He believes that 90% of China's economy is agricultural production, and capitalist commodity production only accounts for a minority and is concentrated in large cities. Agricultural production is made up of dispersed small producers, maintaining a strong independence and can be self-sufficient; In politics, the ruling class is strong in the cities, but weak in the countryside. This imbalance in economic and political power allows our party to lead the peasants in armed struggles in the countryside for a long time, establishing revolutionary bases. In the 1930s, Mao Zedong's idea of encircling the cities from the countryside and seizing political power by armed force was basically formed, and the focus of the Party's work had in fact been shifted from the cities to the countryside. With the Jinggangshan revolutionary base as a representative, revolutionary armed forces were established one after another, and the land revolution was fully carried out, opening a new situation.

The shift of the party's work focus to the countryside makes the task of party building even heavier. This is because with the shift of the party's work focus to the countryside, there has been a great change in the organizational composition of the party. As of March 1927, the total number of party members was 57,967, of which 53.8% were workers and 18.7% were peasants. However, during the period of the land revolutionary war in 1928, out of 130,194 party members, 10.9% were workers and 76.6% were peasants. In 1929, the number of worker party members dropped to 7.5%, and in July 1930, it dropped to 5.5%, and by！In September, it dropped to 1.6%. Is our party a peasant party when the peasant component is in the majority? The view of the Comintern at the time was that the cadres of the Chinese party were not from the working class, which resulted in the failure of the great revolution. They only emphasize party members from the working class, believing that non-worker cadres should be replaced by worker cadres in the party's organization, and the Red Army should also include people from the working class. At the time of the Sixth Party Congress, due to the emphasis of the Comintern on worker representation, out of 75 representatives, 41 were workers, and when electing Central Committee members, only worker components were emphasized, and 21 out of 36 Central Committee members were workers. However, most of these elected central committee members had not directly participated in actual revolutionary struggles.

As for how to build a party in a rural environment, the Communist Party of China proposed a different line from that of the Third International. First, the Party recognized the seriousness of the problem. In the course of establishing revolutionary bases, Mao Zedong felt that "the issue of leadership by proletarian ideology is a very important issue. The party in each county on the border is almost entirely composed of peasants. If it is not led by proletarian thinking, its tendency will be erroneous." Secondly, Mao Zedong analyzed the reasons for the emergence of erroneous views such as the purely military point of view, extreme democratization, non-organizational point of view, absolute egalitarianism, subjectivism, individualism, bandit mentality, and the remnants of impulsivism, pointing out that the source of these incorrect thoughts within the Party is naturally that the largest part of the Party's organizational foundation is made up of peasants and other small and medium-sized proprietors; however, the Party leadership failed to wage a consistent and determined struggle against these incorrect ideologies and educate Party members along the correct line, which is another important reason for the existence and development of these incorrect ideologies. Finally, what Mao Zedong emphasized was not the method of organizational elimination, but the method of strengthening ideological education within the Party and raising the Party's theoretical level. Mao Zedong further elaborated on this issue in articles such as "Against Book Worship," "On Practice," "On Contradiction," "The Announcement of 'The Communist'," etc., creating a path for building a vanguard of the proletariat under conditions where peasants account for a majority of the population and the petty bourgeoisie within the Party has a powerful influence.
II. The Party Building Theory of the Communist Party of China is Formed and Developed in Practice
Represented by Mao Zedong, the communists of the Communist Party of China enriched and developed the Marxist-Leninist theory of party building with original theories in the long-term revolutionary struggle and party building. 
The formation and development of the Party-building theory of the Communist Party of China is consistent with the formation and development of Mao Zedong Thought, and it is based on the development of China's revolutionary history and the Party's revolutionary activities at different historical stages.



It is the correct theory of party building principles and the summary of experiences proven by the construction practice of the Communist Party of China. It is the crystallization of the collective wisdom of the Communist Party of China. From 1920 to 1927, Chinese Communists explored the valuable challenges of how to establish a new type of proletarian party in China. During this period, influenced by the October Revolution in Russia and the May Fourth Movement in China, and with the help of the Communist International led by Lenin, Chinese Communists began to establish the nature of the party, the party's basic program, and organizational principles. The program passed by the First Congress of the Party established the dictatorship of the proletariat as the party’s struggle goal. The Second National Congress clearly proposed the party’s democratic revolution program against imperialism and feudalism. Soon after the party was established, it led vigorous revolutionary struggles, and the vast majority of party members performed very well in the struggle. The party's organization also developed significantly. During this period, our party began to realize the importance of strengthening its own construction. At the Second National Congress of the Party in 1922, it proposed to strengthen the training of party members in ideology, politics, and organization, and pointed out that it must maintain its independence when uniting with the bourgeois democrats. At the First Executive Committee of the Third Session held in November 1923, it proposed to educate party members and the public with a dialectical materialist worldview and a collective life outlook, emphasizing opposition to individualism. This proves that at the beginning of the party, our party paid attention to the transformation of the ideological consciousness of party members. 

Subsequently, almost every time at the Congress or the Executive Committee expansion meeting, corresponding resolutions were made on internal organization and propaganda education issues. In the "Resolution on the Third Revision of the Constitution of the Communist Party of China" passed in June 1927, "Party Building" was clearly discussed in a separate chapter. But during this period, the party was still an immature party. Due to the limited understanding of Marxism-Leninism, insufficient theoretical preparation, the party just established and plunged into mass struggles, understanding little about the realities of the Chinese revolution, and lacking experience in party building; especially there is not yet a conscious understanding of the combination of Marxism-Leninism party building doctrine and the construction practice of the Chinese Communist Party. 

From the "August 7th Conference" in 1927 to the Zunyi Conference in 1935, the Communist Party of China began to explore how to build the party in the Red Army, how to build the party in armed struggles, and how to build the party in rural revolution bases. This created many new experiences and solved many major theoretical and practical problems that Marx, Engels, and Lenin did not encounter or mentioned, and initially formed a party building path with Chinese characteristics. The starting point of this path is: firstly, establishing the principle of emphasizing ideological party building and proposing to overcome all kinds of non-proletarian thoughts with proletarian thoughts. In response to the situation where a large number of peasant revolutionaries rushed into the party, and the serious existence of petite bourgeoisie thoughts within the party, the "Gutian Conference Resolution" (hereinafter referred to as the "Resolution"), it points out that party members must establish the outlook on life of proletarian revolution. It must overcome various non-proletarian thoughts within the party, especially various petite bourgeoisie thoughts, to ensure the ruling position of proletarian thoughts in the party. It must carry out serious criticism and self-criticism and actively conduct correct internal party struggles. This is the basic way to strengthen proletarian thoughts and eliminate all non-proletarian thoughts. The aforementioned principles and methods have initially formed the basic principles of emphasizing ideological party building, laying a foundation for future strengthening of the party's ideological construction.

Secondly, it proposed the scientific concept of the party's organizational line, emphasizing strengthening the construction of party members and grassroots organizations.



The "Resolution" proposes the scientific concept of "the organizational line of the Party" and elaborates on the issue of organizational construction under the guidance of the Party's organizational line. The "Resolution" first proposes to strengthen the grassroots organizations of the Party. Grassroots organizations live and fight among the vast number of soldiers and are the bridge and bond connecting the Party with the masses. Therefore, the "Resolution" reasserts that "each company builds a branch, and each squad builds a group; this is one of the important principles of the Party's organization in the Army." "Building a branch at the company level" is an important measure to strengthen the Party's leadership in the Army and make the branch a bulwark of grassroots organizations.

To improve the combat effectiveness of the Party organization, it is necessary to strengthen the construction of the Party membership. This is the primary concern in organizational construction. Mao Zedong defined the correct path for the development of Party members for the Red Army, emphasizing "the path of Party member development, with fighters as the main target." He also proposed that in the work of developing Party members, strict Party membership qualifications and procedures must be observed, as only in this way can the purity and fighting power of the Party membership be ensured.

The issue of democratic life within the Party is the core content of the Party's organizational construction. Democratic centralism is the fundamental organizational principle of the Communist Party of China, as well as the fundamental norm for doing well in democratic life within the Party. The "Resolution," addressing the trend towards extreme democratization appearing within the Red Army Party, emphasizes that in the life of the Party, it is necessary to insist on democratic life under centralized guidance. Any so-called democracy that strays from the Party's line and policy, away from the Party's leadership, is not true democracy for the proletariat, but extreme democratization of the petty bourgeoisie, which must be opposed.

Thirdly, it put forward the valuable idea of the Party's political construction, emphasizing that the Party's construction must be combined with the construction of the red power. Mao Zedong, in his articles "The Struggle in the Jinggang Mountains" and "Why Can the Red Power Exist?," pointed out that both the strength of the Communist Party's organization and the correctness of its political line are fundamental conditions for the long-term existence of the red power, and also emphasized the need to strengthen the Party's own construction and expand the Party's organization to make the Communist Party truly the strong core of the red power during the process of establishing the red power. This indicates that while the law of building the Party around the political line had not yet been fully developed, its basic ideas had already been formulated.

Fourthly, the scientific concepts and basic ideas of the Party's ideological line and mass line were proposed. Mao Zedong put forward the scientific concept and basic ideas of the ideological line in his fight against "left" dogmatism and in the article "Against Book Worship," and also proposed the scientific concept and basic ideas of the "mass line" in the Gutian Conference Resolution and the articles "Concern for the Masses' Life, Pay Attention to Work Methods" and so on.

In addition, during this period, our Party also created valuable experiences in conducting correct inner-Party struggles and established the principle of the Party's absolute leadership over the Red Army, among others. During this period, the Party focused on solving the problem of how to build the Party in terms of ideology and politics, with the goal of ensuring the vanguard nature of the party, to realize strong party leadership. Although the series of Party building principles proposed at that time were not yet mature and complete, the basic points on how to maintain the vanguard nature of the party in terms of ideology, politics, and organization under the conditions of the rural base areas and armed struggle, and how to realize Party leadership, had been proposed, and began to form an organic theoretical system. This is a result of creatively combining Marxist-Leninist party theory with the construction practice of the Communist Party of China represented by Mao Zedong, and it marked the initial formation of the Party building path with Chinese characteristics during this period. The Zunyi Meeting held in 1935 established Mao Zedong's leadership position in the Red Army and the whole party, providing extremely important political conditions for the further promotion and application of Mao Zedong's party building line across the party, and for its maturation and completion during the Yan'an Rectification Movement.



From the Zunyi Conference in 1935 to the Seventh National Congress of the Party in 1945. This period was an important time when our party transitioned from setbacks to successive victories and rapid development and growth of the Party's organization. It was also a period when the Party's construction path with Chinese characteristics matured. During this stage, led by Mao Zedong, the Party Central Committee proposed the grand task of building a broad, more Bolshevik Marxist party. In the process of realizing this task, Comrade Mao Zedong and others profoundly summarized the experiences and lessons of the Party's construction since its establishment, made many reports on Party building, wrote a large number of treatises on Party building, drafted many important documents, and led the whole Party in carrying out the famous Yan'an Rectification Movement, creating effective methods for Party style construction, and exploring the issue of Party construction in the combination of theory and practice, further developed and perfected the Party building ideas from the Red Army creation period, and gradually formed a complete theoretical system of Mao Zedong's Party construction ideas and the path of Party building.

In the early stage of this period, Mao Zedong wrote "On Practice" and "On Contradiction", two works that heavily critiqued dogmatism, systematically expounded the Party's dialectical materialist ideological line and scientific worldview, and laid the philosophical foundation for the Party's ideological construction. Following this, Mao Zedong discussed the importance of studying Marxism and enhancing theoretical level at the Sixth Plenary Session of the Sixth Central Committee of the Party. On October 20, 1939, the CPC Central Committee founded the "Communist" magazine in Yan'an. Mao Zedong wrote the preface for the magazine, proposing the "task of building a nationwide, broad, and fully consolidated Bolshevik Chinese Communist Party in terms of thought, politics, and organization", and likening the construction of such a party to a "great project", he also summarized the Party's building experience over the past 18 years. From 1939 to the period before the Yan'an Rectification Movement, Mao Zedong also published works such as "On the Chinese Revolution and the Chinese Communist Party", "Absorb a Large Number of Intellectuals", "On Policy", etc. During this period, Liu Shaoqi wrote works such as "On the Cultivation of Communist Party Members", "On Struggle within the Party", "Being a Good Party Member, Building a Good Party"; Chen Yun published articles such as "On Cadre Policy", "How to be a Communist Party Member", "Several Issues on Cadre Team Building"; Zhang Wentian published articles such as "Organizational Work Should be Sinicized", "Briefly Discussing the Relationship between Party and Non-Party Masses", "Advocating Simplicity and Practical Work Style", etc. These publications on Party building further enriched the theory of the "great project", further perfecting the Chinese Communist Party's thoughts on Party building.

At the same time, the preliminary ideas on the Party's political construction also saw further development. The main points on the Party's political construction by Mao Zedong and other Communists during this period were as follows: The Party's construction must be combined with the Party's political line and political strategy, and the Party must formulate a correct political line and policy strategy. It stressed the need to enhance the political awareness of the whole Party in the process of implementing the political line, and develop and strengthen the Party's organization. The Party's construction must also be combined with the united front and armed struggle. The construction of the Party is decisive for the success or failure of the Chinese revolution. The united front and armed struggle are two fundamental weapons for defeating the enemy, and the Party's organization is the brave soldier charging and breaking through the enemy's lines with these two weapons. If the Party's construction is done well, the Party will be better able to grasp and use the united front and armed struggle, these two weapons, correctly lead the Chinese revolution, and lead it towards victory.

While setting about solving the Party's ideological and political lines, Mao Zedong and other Communist party members also effectively addressed a series of organizational construction issues. Mao Zedong, in "The Position of the Chinese Communist Party in the National War", comprehensively and systematically expounded on the Party's organizational line and construction issues, focusing on discussing the "moral and intellectual integrity" standard for the selection of cadres and the "selecting on the basis of their virtue" line for using cadres, emphasizing the need to care for and love cadres, unite cadres fully and correctly, and handle cadres who make mistakes, etc.



The basic principles for correctly conducting a two-front struggle has been proposed. Additionally, systematic discussions on various issues related to the construction of the party's organizations such as democratic centralism have been made in reports and other articles by Mao Zedong and other party members, hence forming a complete system of theories on party organization construction.

After resolving the political-thinking and organization direction of the party, starting from 1942, the Chinese Communist Party launched the famous Yan'an Rectification Movement. Through the rectification movement, the Communist Party systematically summarized and constantly improved the party construction, especially a complete set of theoretical principles and policy guidelines for the construction of the party's style.

We strengthen the party's construction with the aim to realize the correct leadership of the party over the Chinese revolutionary cause. On the principles of party leadership, at the onset of the Anti-Japanese War, Mao Zedong and other party members further expounded on the historical inevitability of realizing party leadership. The basic conditions, principles, paths, and methods were proposed, forming a preliminary theoretical system on party leadership. During the Yan'an Rectification period, Mao Zedong and other party members further discussed how to realize the principles, paths, and methods of party leadership, making the principles of party leadership more complete.

In these ten years, our party has become more mature in thought and politics and more solid in organization. Mao Zedong and others have formed a complete set of theoretical principles on what kind of party should be established, how to build this party from ideological, political, organizational, and style aspects, and how to correctly carry out the struggle between the two lines within the party. Liu Shaoqi made a high summary of our party's theoretical system at the Seventh National Congress of the party, explicitly proposing the scientific concept of "Mao Zedong's Theory of Party Construction" and "Mao Zedong's Line of Party Construction". This indicates that the theoretical system of Mao Zedong's Theory of Party Construction has been fully formed, and the path of party construction with Chinese characteristics has matured.

From the victory in the Anti-Japanese War to the eve of the establishment of New China, the party's organization and membership further expanded, the principles of party's democratic centralism and collective leadership system further improved, and the party's thought on party construction, especially on organizational construction, further developed.

First, from the victory in the Anti-Japanese War to the National Land Conference in July 1947. To adapt to the situation of large-scale war, the party central committee took measures such as cadre mobilization and organizational adjustment in a timely manner. While strengthening the leadership of the party in various regions, a large number of party members were absorbed to strengthen the party's power.

Second, from the National Land Conference to the Second Plenum of the Seventh Central Committee in March 1949. In order to support the strategic counter-offensive and strategic decisive battle of the People's Liberation Army, the party central committee conducted rectification in various liberated areas combined with land reform. It successively made instructions and decisions on enhancing the party's policy concept, strengthening discipline, consolidating the party's democratic centralism and collective leadership system. It promptly corrected the "left-leaning" tendency appeared in land reform and rectification, overcome some lack of organization and discipline among party members, ensured unified central leadership and implementation of various guidelines and policies, and strongly supported the war.

Lastly, from the Second Plenum of the Seventh Central Committee to September 1949. With the revolution about to achieve victory nationwide, the focus of the party's work began to shift from rural areas to urban areas, the party's activities changed from being secretive to open, and the party's position shifted from an oppressed, illegally functioning organization to a ruling party. The party central committee promptly formulated measures to prevent the infringement of bourgeois ideology, prohibit praising individuals, called on the whole party to continue to maintain a modest, cautious, unpretentious, and hard-working style, proposed principles of openly building the party, and prepared for ruling party construction, ideologically and politically.



During this period, due to the rapid expansion of the party's organization and membership, the rapid growth of revolutionary forces, and the war forms of large-scale mobile warfare and positional warfare, it was even more necessary to strengthen the coordination and unified action of the party's organizations at all levels. Therefore, the Party Central Committee emphasized the principles of centralized and unified leadership and collective leadership, consolidated the unity and unity of the party, and provided an important guarantee for winning the national victory. 
Third, the basic characteristics of party building during the New Democratic Revolution
The special conditions and circumstances experienced by the Communist Party of China during the New Democratic Revolution are the basic starting points for the construction and development of the Communist Party. Chinese Communists represented by Mao Zedong, in the process of constantly understanding and mastering these basic features, successfully solved the problem of building a mass, Marxist proletariat party, and created a theory of party building that conforms to the development law of our party. The basic characteristics of the construction of the Communist Party of China during the New Democratic Revolution are manifested in the following aspects:
First, the establishment of the Chinese Communist Party was after the October Revolution, based on the Chinese labor movement, with Lenin's Bolshevik Party as the model, and established according to Marxist-Leninist revolutionary theory and revolutionary style. From the beginning, our party was not influenced by the Second International of the Social Democratic Party in thought and organization. China does not have a period of capitalist "peaceful” development like Europe, which allows the working class to fight in peaceful parliamentary struggles, and there are no worker aristocrats like in Europe. Therefore, our party was a worker's revolutionary party armed with Marxism-Leninism from the beginning, without the reformist tradition of the Social Democratic Party.
Second, the construction and development of the Chinese Communist Party is closely related to the guidance of the Comintern. From July 1922 when our party's second congress announced to join the Comintern, to May 1943 when the Comintern was disbanded, the Chinese Communist Party was a branch under the leadership of the Comintern. In the long-term struggle of the Chinese revolution, on the one hand, the Comintern did play a positive role in helping the construction and development of the Chinese Communist Party. Our party's program and the formulation of the united front policy, the Northern Expedition, the Land Revolution War, the Anti-Japanese War, etc., have all received the support and voice of the Comintern and Stalin. On the other hand, the Comintern and Stalin also made mistakes in guidance and interference, and even almost caused the Chinese Communist Party and the Chinese Revolution to fall into a dilemma. Chen Duxiu's right-leaning errors and Wang Ming's "left" leaning errors are directly related to blindly following the wrong instructions of the Comintern and Stalin's wrong opinions. It should be said that the construction of our party, the advancement and retreat of the party, and the victories and failures are inseparable from the guidance of the Comintern.
Third, within the Chinese Communist Party, the components of the peasants and petty bourgeoisie account for a considerable proportion, which is the social basis for the "left" and right deviations in our party. China's semi-colonial and semi-feudal society is a society with a large middle and small ends, that is, the working class and landlords, bourgeoisie, are the minority, and the vast majority are peasants, urban petty bourgeoisie, and other middle classes. Our party is growing in the revolutionary alliance of Chinese peasants and other petite bourgeoisie. China has not formed a powerful petite bourgeoisie party, so it is inevitable for a large number of revolutionaries from the petite bourgeoisie to join the working-class revolutionary party. But this makes the components of the peasants and petty bourgeoisie in our party account for a considerable proportion. The opposition and struggle between the working-class thought and petty-bourgeois thought has been the most essential contradiction in the party for a long time. Under this circumstance, how to build a proletarian revolutionary party becomes a major issue facing our party.
Fourth, the Communist Party of China is honed in both alliance and struggle with the bourgeoisie. During the New Democratic Revolution, our party has established a revolutionary united front with the bourgeoisie many times. After this united front broke down, we have also had intense armed struggles with the bourgeoisie and its allies.


Generally speaking, during the process of the new democratic revolution, when our party forms a united front with the bourgeoisie, the party is prone to leaning to the right; whereas when our party splits with the bourgeoisie, the party is prone to a "left" inclination. Therefore, correctly handling our party's relationship with the bourgeoisie is another major issue in our party's construction.

Fifth, the Chinese Communist Party was formed through lengthy armed struggles. Armed struggles are the characteristics and advantages of the Chinese new democratic revolution, and they are the main form of China's revolutionary struggle. Our party has conducted lengthy domestic revolutionary wars and wars of national liberation during the democratic revolution. Vast party members and cadres have lived a collective military life for a long time, undergoing severe exercises mentally, organizationally, and in life, and have established intimate relationships with the masses who share life and death. Therefore, the party's construction is closely related to the correct handling of the issue of armed struggle. How to build and develop the party in armed struggles is another important issue in party building.

Sixth, the Chinese Communist Party has grown and strengthened in the long-term construction and struggle of rural revolutionary bases. Since 1927, our party has pioneered the road to surround the cities from the countryside and ultimately take the cities by armed forces. The revolutionary forces, in order to accumulate and exercise their strength, have long penetrated into the countryside and transformed the backward rural areas into advanced solid bases, forming great revolutionary positions in military, political, economic, and cultural aspects, gradually seizing the total victory of the revolution. In rural areas, the party, in addition to focusing on its own construction, must also lead the people to carry out power construction, economic construction, and cultural construction, learning a full set of skills to govern and secure a country peacefully. Therefore, how to build in the rural bases divided by the enemy, persist in guerrilla warfare, the scattered individual economy, a worker class revolutionary party that is armed with Marxism-Leninism theory, strictly disciplines, centralized and unified, is a new subject without precedent in the history of the international communist movement encountered by the Communist Party of China.

Looking at the above, one can see that the Communist Party of China's surrounding historical conditions, social environment, class relations, its experienced revolutionary path, form of struggle all have supreme particularities, which demand the members of the Communist Party of China to exhibit extreme originality, combining Marxist-Leninist party construction principles with the Communist Party of China's practical experience. Mao Zedong's party construction theory was formed and developed in the process of the party leading the people to carry out revolution and construction, and it adapts to these historical demands.

Section 2 Party Ideological Construction
1. Building the party from an ideological perspective is a significant feature of the Communist Party of China
Building the party from an ideological perspective, is the notable feature and central link of the construction theory of the Chinese Communist Party, and it is the outstanding contribution of the CPC people, represented by Mao Zedong, to the doctrine of the Marxist-Leninist party. It has played a decisive role in the establishment, consolidation, and development of the Chinese Communist Party, and in adhering to the party's vanguard nature and leadership status of the working class.
Building the party from an ideological perspective is an important principle of Marxist-Leninist party construction ideology
The founding fathers of the doctrine of the proletariat party, Marx and Engels, from the birth of the party, paid great attention to the important role of revolutionary theory and the ideological construction of the party, advocating the combination of scientific socialist theory with the worker movement, and using this theory to educate the entire party. Marx pointed out in the introduction to "A Critique of Hegel's Philosophy of Law" that “the weapon of criticism certainly cannot replace the criticism of weapons, material force must only be overthrown by material force; but once the masses grasp the theory, it would also become material force." In the "Communist Manifesto" published by Marx and Engels in 1848, they further clarified: "In practice, the communists are the most resolute parts of the political parties in each country, always pushing the movement forward; theoretically, their superiority over the rest of the working class crowds lies in their understanding of the conditions, progress and general results of the working class movement..."


Later, Engels, in summing up the experience of party building, said: "Our party has a great advantage: it has a new scientific worldview as the theoretical foundation." This scientific worldview is the Marxist view of Dialectical Materialism and Historical Materialism, which is the greatest ideological weapon for Communists to understand and transform the world. With the development of the proletarian revolutionary movement, the expansion of the party team, and the theoretical victory of Marxism, not only the awakened workers demanded to join the party organization, but also other people from non-proletarian backgrounds flocked to the proletarian party team. This will inevitably cause the proletarian party to be influenced by various non-proletarian ideological consciousness. Therefore, Marx and Engels not only emphasized the class nature of the party, pointed out that the party was composed of advanced members of the working class and was always pushing the movement forward, but also emphasized the advancement of the party, pointed out that the party must have a new scientific worldview as the theoretical foundation, and put forward specific requirements for strengthening the party's construction in thought: "If such people from other classes join the proletarian movement, they are first required not to bring any remnants of prejudices from the bourgeoisie, petty bourgeoisie, etc., and to unconditionally master the proletarian worldview." It emphasizes the need for "the most thorough break with traditional property relations" and "the most thorough break with traditional notions." In order to maintain the advanced nature of the proletarian party, Marx and Engels proposed strict ideological requirements for non-proletarian members who joined the party: "First, these people must bring real enlightenment; second, if such people from other classes join the proletarian movement, they must first demand that they do not bring any remnants of prejudice from the bourgeoisie, petty bourgeoisie, etc., and must unconditionally grasp the proletarian worldview." Marx and Engels' important thoughts outlined the direction of ideological construction for the proletarian party and laid a theoretical foundation.
Leninism is Marxism in the era of imperialism and proletarian revolution. Lenin not only founded the new type of proletarian party in Russia - the Bolshevik Party, but also inherited, defended and developed Marxism's doctrine on party. When Lenin founded the party, he was facing the situation of the Second International's comprehensive betrayal of Marxism and the denial of the role of revolutionary theory by the Russian economic school. Therefore, from the very beginning of establishing a party in Russia, Lenin paid great attention to the significant role of revolutionary theory in the construction of a new type of proletarian party. Lenin particularly pointed out that instilling socialist ideas into the working class is a regular and basic task of the party. He criticized spontaneity and stressed the "instilling" theory from the very beginning of the party's establishment. He pointed out: "Without revolutionary theory, there will be no strong socialist party." "Only a party guided by advanced theory can play the role of advanced fighters." He also sharply pointed out: "Without a theory, the revolutionary faction will lose the right to survive, and is bound to be politically bankrupt sooner or later." In Lenin's view, "whether a party is a real workers' party or not relies not only on whether it is composed of workers, but also on who leads it, its actions and its political strategy. Only based on the latter, can it be determined whether the party is a real proletarian party." Here, Lenin has regarded the fundamental condition that determines the nature of the proletarian party as which thought holds the dominant position within the party. "If the thought of revisionists really prevails within the party, then it is not the socialist party of the working class." Lenin's important discussions have enriched the theory of Marxist party building.
As can be seen, without revolutionary theory, there will not be a strong proletarian party. The nature of the party does not depend on the origin of the party members, but on the guiding ideology and political line of the party. This is the theoretical basis for emphasizing the construction of the party in thought. Building the party in terms of thought is determined by the national conditions of China.



The Communist Party of China is a proletariat political party established according to the revolutionary theories and revolutionary style of Marxism-Leninism. Marx and Lenin, when discussing the conditions for the establishment of the party, believed that only when there are class conditions and theoretical conditions, and the two are combined, can the establishment of the proletariat political party become a reality. In China, by the time of the May Fourth Movement, the establishment of the Communist Party of China already had both class conditions and theoretical conditions. At that time, industrial workers had increased to two million people, and they stepped onto the political stage independently. They held strike struggles in many central cities, displaying the incomparable revolutionary firmness and thoroughness of the Chinese proletariat and their immense fighting power. A batch of advanced intellectuals with the preliminary idea of communism recognized the strength of the working class and decided to carry out Marxist-Leninist propaganda education and organizing work among the worker masses, which furthered the combination of Marxism-Leninism and the Chinese workers' movement. The great anti-imperialist and anti-feudal May Fourth Movement achieved this combination. After the May Fourth Movement, early Communist Party organizations centered on urban areas were established successively in Shanghai, Beijing, Changsha, Wuhan, Shandong, and other places, as well as among Chinese students in Japan and France, and carried out extensive activities among the worker masses. The Chinese workers' movement found its spiritual weapon from Marxism, and Marxism found its material force in the Chinese workers' movement. The combination of Marxism-Leninism and the Chinese workers' movement produced the Communist Party of China. After the establishment of the Party, it first established and developed in the city and among the working-class masses, and it carried out vigorous strike struggles. However, the revolutionary practice of the Chinese Communist Party showed that the social environment in which the Party was located, the class relations, and the revolutionary road to be taken, compared with the Communist Parties of various European countries, have a significant difference. Therefore, the Chinese Communist Party encountered major issues in its self-building that European parties had never encountered before. The Old China is a semi-colonial and semi-feudal society, the collusion between imperialism and feudal forces caused serious national oppression and class oppression, the feudal exploitation system was clearly advantageous in social and economic life, although national capitalism had some development, its strength was weak, and this caused China to form a society with a small top and bottom, and a large middle. The landlord, the bourgeoisie, and the working class only accounted for a minority of the population, while most of the population are peasants and other petty bourgeois. This basic characteristic of Chinese society determines that if the Chinese Communist Party wants to become strong and take on the heavy responsibility of the revolution of saving the country and the people, relying solely on the strength of its class is far from enough, it must absorb the enthusiastic participants of the majority of peasants and other petty bourgeois who are "sincerely revolutionary, believers in the revolutionary doctrine, endorse the party's policies, and willing to follow discipline and work hard", making the party become a great mass party. Also, because the city is the enemy's stronghold, while the countryside is where the rule of imperialism and feudal forces is weaker. Therefore, the party organization that only exists in the city is difficult to survive and develop. It must develop and grow in the countryside, and lead the workers and peasants to create an armed enclave there. After the failure of the great revolution in 1927, the focus of the party's work gradually shifted from the city to the countryside, and the party moved away from the central cities and its class masses. Since then, the party has existed and developed in the countryside. On the one hand, the party lives in the countryside, surrounded by a vast sea of peasant petty bourgeois; on the other hand, the party mainly recruits its members from the petty bourgeois masses. Under these special social conditions, building a truly Marxist, highly pure proletariat political party is undoubtedly a formidable task. As Mao Zedong said, "The organization of the party in villages, due to living conditions, many are branches composed of members of the same surname, and the branch meetings are almost at the same time family meetings. Under such circumstances, the construction of 'the Bolshevik Party of Struggle' is extremely difficult.



"The difficulty lies in the various non-proletarian ideologies dominated by petty-bourgeois thought, which constantly attack the Communist Party from all directions, and the petty-bourgeois thought within the party that has not yet been overcome occasionally causes trouble. In this situation, it is both critical and extremely difficult to maintain the proletarian nature of the party and the purity of communism. Represented by Mao Zedong, the Chinese Communists, guided by the Marxist-Leninist doctrine of party-building, specifically analyzed the characteristics of China that differ from other European countries in the establishment of the proletarian party, pointing out that "the issue of proletarian ideological leadership is a very important issue. If the party in the border counties, which is almost entirely composed of peasants, is not given proletarian ideological leadership, its tendency can be erroneous". Emphasizing the importance of party building in terms of thought, and putting ideological construction at the forefront of party building, it successfully solved the major task of how to build the party into a proletarian revolutionary party under the social conditions in China where the working class is small in number but strong in fighting power, and peasants and other petty bourgeoisie constitute the majority of the population. The ideological construction of the party is the premise and foundation of all aspects of party building. The ideological and theoretical construction is the central link in the party's construction. It pervades all aspects of the party's construction and is the premise and foundation of all other aspects of the party's construction. 

The party's ideological construction is an important premise of the party's political construction. In the party's political construction, the determination of the party's political line, the formulation of the party's strategies and policies, and the determination of the political tasks of the party at various historical stages all require correct and scientific theoretical guidance and must be based on the ideological line. The correctness of the ideological line directly determines the correctness of the political line. For the party's political construction, the role of the party's theoretical construction is mainly manifested in the following points: firstly, the party can only correctly observe and analyze the situation, propose correct political tasks, and formulate correct political lines and policies if it is correct in its ideological and theoretical interpretation, especially if it has a Marxist ideological line. Secondly, the correctness of the ideological line determines whether the party's political line and policies can be correctly implemented. If the party's thoughts are not unified, even a correct political line cannot be realized. Thirdly, overcoming and correcting the wrong tendencies within the party, especially the overall wrong tendencies, must start with correcting the root causes in thoughts and improving the Marxist theoretical level of the entire party. During the period of the Great Revolution, Chen Duxiu erroneously exaggerated the power of the reactionaries, renounced the leadership of the proletariat, and his right opportunist errors led to the failure of the great revolution. The "Left" deviation during the period of the Land Revolution war copied the Russian revolution, without studying the national conditions and actual situation of the Chinese revolution, which violated the line of seeking truth from facts, and resulted in serious setbacks for the party and the revolution. Mao Zedong adhered to the principle of seeking truth from facts, combined the basic principles of Marxism-Leninism with the specific realities of the Chinese revolution, and found a correct path of revolution in which the countryside surrounds the city and armed power is seized, leading the Chinese revolution to continuous victories after the Zunyi Conference ended the rule of "Left" deviationist leaders in the party central leadership. Historical facts have proven that deviation from or deviation from the Marxist-Leninist ideological line in ideology will inevitably lead to errors in political lines. Therefore, the success or failure of the party's ideological construction is related to the success or failure of the party's political construction.

The party's ideological construction is the ideological foundation of the party's organizational construction. In the party's organizational construction, whether the principle of democratic centralism can be implemented and the unity of the party can be maintained to make the party the strong core leading the Chinese revolution and construction is inseparable from the party's ideological construction. The unity and unity of the party is the life of the party and one of the basic requirements that the party's construction is to achieve. So, how to make the party organization a solid and unified whole? Fundamentally speaking, only when all party members common have the same faith and the same ideal, that is, only when there is ideological unanimity throughout the party, can there be organizational unity and political unity. Lenin once pointed out that without ideological unity, organizational unity is meaningless; we have never sought such organizational unity and it is impossible to seek it.."



Due to ideological differences, there is a lack of genuine unity among people, making it impossible for an organization to be uniform. The Chinese Communist Party has become a strong fortress leading the people's revolution because every party member shares a common belief and communist ideals. Throughout the revolutionary practice, Mao Zedong always emphasized that the whole party should study Marxism-Leninism seriously, forming ideological consensus first, and then forming political and organizational unity. In the process of its organizational construction, our party has always based on ideological construction. Ideological construction is the ideological guarantee for strengthening the party's work style. The party's style is the style of the party organization and its members in politics, thinking, organization, work, and life, it is a specific manifestation of the nature of the working-class vanguard. A person's behavior comes from thought, and thought determines a person's words and deeds. To maintain and develop the fine traditions and style of the party, it is necessary to continuously strengthen the ideological education of party members, enhance the party spirit of each party member, and establish a communist worldview and outlook on life. In the Yan'an Rectification Movement, Mao Zedong required the majority of party members to study Marxist-Leninist theory seriously, check their words and deeds, and rectify the "three styles", that is, party style, academic style, and literary style. After the Yan'an Rectification Movement, not only has the whole party's level of Marxist-Leninist theory improved, but it has also formed the fine work style of our party. If there are still non-proletarian thoughts in his mind, he often makes mistakes of subjectivism, sectarianism, bureaucracy, and individualism in his work. That's because non-proletarian thoughts are the roots of these errors. If the roots are not eliminated, errors will inevitably be made in the work. And the way and means to eliminate non-proletarian thought is to carry out Marxist-Leninist ideological and theoretical education. The style of our party is seeking truth from facts, doing everything from reality, combining theory with reality, believing in the masses, relying on the masses, "coming from the masses and going to the masses", maintaining close ties with the masses, and taking the mass line; being brave to criticize and self-criticize, adhering to the truth, correcting mistakes, distinguishing right from wrong, uniting comrades; daring to take responsibility, ignoring personal gain or loss; striving hard, selflessly serving the public; being frugal and plain, frugal and economical; not arrogant or rash, and not discouraged. In order to build the party's style, we must first attach importance to ideological education and solve ideological problems, and make the party's ideological education regular and systematic. Therefore, giving the party members correct ideological education is the foundation of correcting the party members' style of work. 

II. Main Contents of Ideological Construction

To strengthen the ideological construction of the party, it is necessary to clarify what the content of ideological construction is. The main content of the party's ideological construction is based on the party's proletarian worldview and methodology, guided by Marxist dialectical materialism and historical materialism, and arms the whole party with advanced revolutionary theory, educates the majority of party members to raise their awareness, correct their thinking, and transform their worldview. Not only should we join the party in organization, but also in ideology.

Marxism–Leninism arms the whole party with the task of ideological construction

Mao Zedong believed that arming the whole party with Marxism-Leninism theory is the main task of the party's ideological construction. Marxism-Leninism is the soul, motivation, and direction of the Communist Party, which is a universal rule for the development of proletarian parties in various countries worldwide. The Chinese Communist Party is no exception. However, our party has its own particularity, which is that it grew and developed in a country where the petty bourgeoisie is extremely broad and semi-colonial and semi-feudal. Due to the profound influence of feudal petty bourgeoisie ideology, and because "the preparation in thought and theoretical training were inadequate" when we founded the party, the contradiction between proletarian thinking and non-proletarian thinking within our party is very prominent. Therefore, it is even more necessary to emphasize the need to regularly educate our party members through Marxist-Leninist ideology.



Mao Zedong pointed out: "Generally speaking, all Communist Party members with considerable research capabilities need to study the theories of Marx, Engels, Lenin, and Stalin. They should study the history of our nation and analyze the current movements, their conditions, and trends. They are also responsible for educating those party members with a lower cultural level." Liu Shaoqi further emphasized: "The most important issue in building our party is firstly, the construction of thinking, which involves educating and transforming our party members with the scientific ideas of Marxism-Leninism, the proletariat thought…"

The greatest contribution Mao Zedong made for our party and the Chinese people was to complete the great task of Sinicization of Marxism, i.e., the Chinese Communist Party members, represented by him, created the great Mao Zedong Thought. The new party chapter stipulates: "The Chinese Communist Party takes Marxism-Leninism and Mao Zedong Thought as its own guide to action." This requires the whole party to arm their minds with Marxism-Leninism, educate party members and cadres with Mao Zedong Thought, and apply it to guide their own practice. Overcoming non-proletarian thoughts with proletarian thoughts is key to ideological construction.

Instilling communist ideology throughout the party, using the worldview of Marxism-Leninism to transform and overcome various non-proletarian thoughts within the party is crucial. It requires each party member to join the party not only organizationally but also ideologically. Early in the Jinggangshan struggle period, Mao Zedong noticed the seriousness of this issue. As the land revolution war deepened, the importance of ideological education was increasingly emphasized on the party's agenda. Zhou Enlai, who was then serving as the Minister of Organization of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China, also pointed out: "In order to bolshevize the party, firstly it's necessary to strengthen the proletariat foundation, while continuously reforming the party's organization and resolutely opposing the consciousness of the petty bourgeoisie."

In the Chinese Communist Party, the contradiction between proletarian thought and petty-bourgeois thought is the main and essential contradiction. Therefore, the main issue that ideological construction needs to solve is this contradiction. In the Red Army's Fourth Army, there exist various non-proletarian thoughts, which greatly hinder the implementation of the party's correct route. He believes that "The most urgent issue in the Red Army party is the education problem." The petty bourgeois mentality mainly manifests itself in three aspects: subjectivity, narrowing down desires to actuality, and considering local issues as the whole. They often forget themselves in success or victory, and become pessimistic, even betraying the revolution and the party, in failure or setback.



Many of their representatives hope for an immediate success of the revolution to change their class status, thereby lacking patience for the longevity and difficulty of the revolution, but are greatly interested in the revolutionary phrases and slogans of the "left". The errors of "left" bias that are repeatedly committed are directly related to these issues. Some others find the various temptations of the bourgeoisie most appealing to their tastes, and politically, they tend to follow the right-wing sentiments and notions of the bourgeoisie. Generally speaking, "leftist" errors are more likely to occur within the party during splits between the proletariat and the bourgeoisie, whereas right-wing errors are more likely to occur when the proletariat and bourgeoisie unite. In organizational life, due to the limitations of the lifestyle and thought methods of the petty bourgeoisie, and especially due to the social impact of China's backward, scattered feudal family and guilds, the petty bourgeoisie tends to exhibit individualistic and factional errors in organizational matters. Such erroneous tendencies are even more likely to arise during protracted rural guerrilla warfare. Those with such erroneous thoughts do not dedicate themselves to the liberation of the party and the people, but instead exploit the strength of the party and the people, even at the expense of damaging their interests, to achieve personal and factional goals. They often undermine the flesh-and-blood ties between the party and the masses and the intimate unity within the party by bureaucratic bureaucracy, paternalistic system, punishment-based system, individual heroism, anarchism, liberalism, hilltopism, independence, factional disputes and even hooligan tactics, etc. In view of these detestable manifestations of petty bourgeois thought, Mao Zedong emphasized that party members should study the theories of Marx, Engels, Lenin, and Stalin, study our nation's history, and study the current situation and trends of movement, so as to promote our scientific understanding of the world, understanding the relationship between individuals and the masses, individuals and collectives, individuals and organizations, and individuals and the party, bringing our ideological line, political line and organizational line to the correct track of Marxism-Leninism, excluding all kinds of "left" or right interferences; everything starts from reality, everything is for the benefit of the people, everything is for the party's political tasks and struggle goals. Overcome the non-righteous wind of viewing Marxism-Leninism in a dogmatic way, copying and copying foreign experiences, divorcing from Chinese reality, and standing above the masses, overcoming idealistic subjectivism and thinking style and methods. Therefore, the task of researching the theory of Marxism-Leninism extensively and deeply is a major problem that urgently needs to be solved and must be dedicated to solving.①  We should take the study of Marxism-Leninism theory as a regular activity of the party. We should establish and improve dedicated ideological and political work systems, and combine mass self-education and remodeling with dedicated ideological and political work. Only in this way can we continuously advance the consciousness and theoretical level of all party members, and build the party into a vanguard of the proletariat that aims at Marxism-Leninism, consists of highly aware, disciplined, and self-sacrificing party members, represents the interests of the broad masses of people, and marches forward along with the broad masses of people. Engaging in party struggle actively and correctly is an important method of ideological party-building, and carrying out party struggle actively and correctly is the fundamental method to resolve contradictions within the party. Mao Zedong mentioned in the resolution on the Border Party: "In the remodeling of the party, we should completely stand from the viewpoint of the proletariat...fight resolutely against the past party's petite bourgeois liberalism, independence, romanticism, and hesitant thoughts." Intra-party criticism is a weapon for strengthening the party organization and reinforcing its combat effectiveness. To make criticism function as a combat weapon, as early as during the land revolution war, Mao Zedong proposed that criticism should be carried out in such a way as to make party members understand that the purpose of criticism is to strengthen the combat effectiveness of the party in order to achieve the victory of class struggle.


Criticism should not be used as a tool to attack others. It is essential to distinguish between criticism within the party and outside the party. Criticism should focus on the broader aspects, prevent subjectivity, arbitrariness and vulgarization. The discussion should be evidence-based, and political aspects should be considered in the critique. During the Anti-Japanese War, to resolve the thoughts of party members regarding joining the party and enhancing their quality, Mao Zedong developed criticism and self-criticism into a rectification movement for conducting Marxist ideological education, using the proletarian world view to unify the whole party. This gave the theory of Marxist criticism fresh content and was a great invention in the history of the Communist movement's party-building.

Firstly, it combines learning theory with practice. 
During the Rectification Movement, Mao, on the one hand, called on all party members and cadres to seriously study Marxist theory and grasp the spirit of Marxism; on the other hand, he guided the whole party to connect individual thoughts and actual work, link up with the reality of China's revolutionary history and reality, using Marxist-Leninist positions, views, and methods to study while rectifying, self-examining and introspecting. This led to cadres recognizing the pros and cons of the party line in history and understanding the essence of Marxism from their hands-on practical experience. They effectively overcame the subjectivist learning style within the party, freed many comrades from dogmatic ignorance. To oppose subjectivism that separates theory from practice, we must promote the spirit of seeking truth from facts in Marxism. In the article "Reforming our learning", it pointed out that "seeking truth from facts" is the sharpest and most effective weapon in the hands of a Communist Party member. 

Secondly, it combines criticism with self-criticism.
The fundamental purpose of carrying out the Rectification Movement is to "stick to the truth, correct mistakes," "clarify ideas, and unite comrades," improve the level of Marxist-Leninist theory and policy thinking of the whole party.
To properly implement criticism and self-criticism, Mao profoundly summarized the lessons and experiences from the party's internal struggles. He proposed "punishing the past and refining the future, curing diseases and saving people" as two main principles to adhere to during rectification in response to the "uncompromising struggle, relentless blow" erroneous guideline touted by "leftist" dogmatists. During the course of guiding the rectification study, the Central Committee repeatedly stressed that criticism and self-criticism should be fact-based, state the facts, make sense, convince others with reason, overcome wrong ideas with the right ones, win over people, and clear up right from wrong from a reasoned perspective, to reach genuine consensus in understanding. Some comrades, including their own mistakes, may not understand some issues for a while and should be allowed time to wait, and even repeats. They oppose the practice of coercion and they are not allowed to treat internal problems as antagonistic contradictions.

Approach human matters with caution, without indifference or injury to comrades. 
During the Yan’an Rectification, leaders lead by example, sincerely conducting criticism and self-criticism, playing a leading role, dispelling general cadre’s concerns, and promoting a good atmosphere of criticism and self-criticism.
Chapter 9: The Party's Construction Thought. It both accounted for irregularities within the party and promoted democratic style; clarified thoughts and unifying comrades, achieving unprecedented unity and unity in thought within the party. Criticism and self-criticism also became the basic method for the whole Party to solve ideological contradictions within the Party and to properly handle contradictions among the people. 

Third, the combination of leadership and the masses.
The process of the Yan’an Rectification Movement fully embodies the process of combining leadership and the masses. In May 1941, the rectification study was first carried out among the central senior cadres, criticizing the subjective style, summarizing the party's historical experience, on the basis of basically consistent understanding, in February 1942 the rectification was extended to the entire party, carrying out Marxist educational activities, achieving unprecedented unity and unity in the entire party. In October 1943, it returned to the central senior cadres to continue the rectification study, distinguishing the political route, summarizing experiences, until the party's Sixth Plenary Session of the Seventh Central Committee in April 1945 adopted the "Resolution on Several Historical Issues", the whole party, especially the party's senior cadres, reached unity on the basis of Marxism-Leninism. This educational principle and method from the leadership to the masses, and from the masses to the leadership, extended to other work in the party, this is the working method of combining leadership and the masses. This working method was summarized and promoted by Mao Zedong. On June 1, 1943, Mao Zedong summarized the experience since the rectification and drafted a decision on several issues on leadership methods for the central government. In this decision, a theoretical summary was made on the scientific method of realizing party leadership, clearly putting forward the principle of "combining leadership and the masses". Mao Zedong believed that to complete a task, it is necessary to both give full play to the enthusiasm of leading cadres and mobilize the enthusiasm of the masses. 

"In all practical work of our Party, correct leadership must come from the masses and go to the masses." The leadership method and working method of combining leadership and the masses not only reflects the idea of democratic centralism, but also reflects the spirit of the mass line, the content is very rich. Of course, the formation and application of this method did not start from the rectification movement, but the promotion and advocacy of this method, as an effective working method and tradition for the entire party, is one of the achievements of the rectification movement.
The Rectification Movement is a great initiative in the ideological construction of the Communist Party of China, it provides experience for how to ideologically construct the party, sets an example, establishes several fundamental principles for ideological construction (these principles, Mao later elevated them to the three main styles of the party), gives a clear path to the ideological construction of the party, and cultivates a large number of outstanding cadres for the Chinese revolution.

Under the new historical conditions of the Liberation War, the "three investigations" (investigating class, investigating thought, investigating style) and "three rectifications" (rectifying organization, rectifying thought, rectifying style) were carried out as the basic content of the party rectification movement.
The historical experience of the Communist Party of China proves that the method of rectification is effective in resolving contradictions within the party, rectifying the party's line, changing the party's style, enhancing the party's unity, consolidating the party's organization, strengthening the party's leadership, and maintaining the advanced nature of the proletariat. It is a big magic weapon in the ideological construction of the Communist Party of China, an important way for Mao Zedong to emphasize the construction of the party from the ideological point of view, and a development of Mao Zedong's Marxist theory of party building.
Third, adhering to the ideological line of seeking truth from facts is the fundamental way to strengthen the ideological construction of the party.


Strengthening the Party's ideological line and arming the entire Party with Marxist theory primarily involves adhering to the Party's pragmatic and realistic ideological line. The pragmatic and realistic ideological line established by the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) is a product of applying dialectical materialism, i.e., the world outlook and the theory of cognition of Marxism-Leninism, to solve practical problems of the Chinese revolution. Furthermore, it has been honed through constant summations of experience and lessons learned in fighting against various incorrect ideologies. This ideological line has been proven to be completely correct through the Party’s long-term practical struggle, possessing rigorous scientific nature and unparalleled combat power, making it the lifeline of the CCP. 

The concept of pragmatism and realism as an ideological line of the Party emerged during the Great Revolution period. Mao Zedong's analysis of the classes in Chinese society and his exposition on the peasant problem, as well as his views on China's revolutionary path reflected in his articles "Analysis of the Classes in Chinese Society" and "Report on an Investigation of the Peasant Movement in Hunan," embody the spirit of pragmatism and realism.

The ideological line of pragmatism and realism gradually took shape during the period of the Agrarian Revolutionary War. In 1929, Mao Zedong contrasted subjectivism with Marxism, treating subjectivism as a wrong guiding principle, its outcome will either be "opportunism or impetuousness." He called on Party members to use the method of investigation and research to replace the method of subjectivism. In May 1930, Mao wrote "Oppose Book Worship," using the concept of "ideological line" for the first time, explicitly proposing the principle of combining theory and practice. He pointed out, "We should learn Marx's 'book,' but it must be combined with our country's actual situation. We need 'book,' but we must correct the de facto 'bookist' that is out of touch with reality." To achieve the combination of the universal principles of Marxism with China's reality requires conducting investigations and research among the masses, "without investigation, there is no right to speak." During this period, although the scientific concept of pragmatism and realism had not yet emerged, Mao had already proposed the basic principle of the ideological line of pragmatism and realism — the combination of theory and practice, laying the foundation for the formation of the ideological line.

The ideological line of pragmatism and realism was formally established during the Yan'an Rectification Movement. During this period, Mao wrote "Reform Our Study", "Rectify the Party's Style of Work," and other works. In these writings, he explicitly proposed the concept of pragmatism and realism, scientifically defined its meaning, and expounded the ideological line of starting from actuality, seeking truth from facts, and linking theory with practice from the perspective of its cognitive substance.

The formation of the ideological line of seeking truth from facts has its theoretical basis and historical conditions:

Firstly, it is the inevitable result of the development of the philosophical thoughts of the Chinese Communist Party. "On Practice" and "On Contradiction" (referred to as the "Two Treatises") provides philosophical proof for the Party's ideological line. It primarily embodies the historical experience of the combination of the universal principles of Marxism and the concrete practice of the Chinese revolution summarized philosophically in the "Two Treatises." "On Practice," based on scientific social practice, clarifies the principle of the historical unity of subjective and objective, theory and practice, providing philosophical proof for the ideological line of seeking truth from facts from the perspective of epistemology; "On Contradiction" clarifies the principle of the unity of universality and particularity of contradictions and their dialectical relationship based on the particularity of contradictions, providing philosophical proof for the ideological line of seeking truth from facts from the perspective of dialectics.

The perceptions in "On Practice" about practice being the basis of cognition, and the priority of practice; the perceptions in "On Contradiction" about the particularity of contradictions being the basis of cognition and the importance of specific analysis of specific conditions collectively verifies one issue: all starts from actuality, seeking rules from "facts."


Because of the practical activities that people themselves engage in, the reality and facts that people face in their own practical activities directly manifest as specific and particular. In the "On Practice," the idea of the two leaps in the process of cognition (from practice to cognition, and then from cognition to practice) is discussed. Moreover, in "On Contradiction," the basic order of cognitive process (from individual to general, and then from general to individual) is examined. Both ideas are proving the same point: the regular knowledge we seek from "facts" must serve as the guide to action, in other words, be combined with practice, serve practice, and be tested and developed in practice.

The general law of the development of cognition in the "On Practice," which is the idea of "practice, cognition, practice again, cognition again" cycling to infinity, and the idea of the cyclic process from individual to general, then from general to individual in "On Contradiction," both argue that seeking truth from facts is a gradually deepening and never-ending process. That is, even the correct cognition reflecting the universality of contradiction proven by practice must return to practice and combine with new, concrete reality (practice), guiding new practice and continuing to be tested and developed during the process of serving the new practice. This process never ends.

The "Two Treatises" provide another important demonstration of the philosophical evidence for the Party's ideological line, summarizing the historical lessons from the combination of Marxist universal principles and China's specific revolutionary practice. "On Practice" digs deep into the epistemological roots of "

On the other hand, it is the product of the long-term opposition to subjectivism by the Communist Party of China. Subjectivism is a thought method that exaggerates subjective force while ignoring objective reality. Subjectivism has caused great harm. In the history of the Chinese Communist Party, every time subjectivism was rampant, the revolutionary cause suffered serious setbacks or even failure. In particular, Wang Ming's "leftist" dogmatism has ruled the party for the longest time, with the most significant harm and worst influence, becoming the fundamental ideological obstacle for the Chinese Communist Party to implement the correct line. Aware of this profound historical lesson, Mao Zedong always highlighted the issue of ideological method and ideological line to the whole party in each historical period, especially at the significant historical turning point of the revolution, treating the fight against subjectivism as a matter of first importance. 

Mao Zedong's exposition of the idea of seeking truth from facts contains the following three theoretical aspects:
Firstly, everything starts from reality...



Mao Zedong creatively applied the philosophical path of materialism to practical work, proposing the perspective of starting from the reality. The so-called reality refers to everything objectively existing, "Everything outside of our minds is objectively real... only our minds (thoughts) are the subjects of study." Starting from reality means starting from the characteristics of moving objective things. Firstly, we should start from the specific characteristics of different things. For the practical activities of the proletariat party, it is the most important and fundamental to start from the national conditions of one's own country. Understanding the nature of Chinese society and the national conditions of China is the basic basis for solving all the problems of the Chinese revolution. The Chinese Communists recognized the nature of old China as a semi-colonial and semi-feudal society, and from this fundamental national condition, they found the unique path for the Chinese revolution. Secondly, we need to start from the changing and developing objective situations. Thirdly, we need to start from the sum and connection of things.

Second, linking theory and practice. Mao Zedong made incisive explanations on how to link theory and practice, pointing out: "Chinese Communists can only link theory and practice when they are adept at applying Marxist-Leninist position, viewpoint, methods and Lenin-Stalin's doctrine on Chinese revolution, further from serious research in Chinese historical and practical realities, and make theoretical creations needed by China on all fronts." Firstly, theory should be applied to practice. Mao Zedong emphasized that learning Marxist theory must pay attention to its application. He said: “With regard to the theory of Marxism, it is important to master it and apply it because the purpose of mastering it is entirely for application.” He used the idiom "shoot the arrow with a target in mind" to illustrate the relationship between Marxist theory and the Chinese revolution, "The arrow of Marxism-Leninism must be used to shoot at the target of the Chinese revolution". Second, practice should be guided by theory. Practice without theoretical guidance is blind practice, this is the principle of Marxism-Leninism reiterated by Mao Zedong. He pointed out that not only should we understand the conclusions of Marx, Engels, Lenin, and Stalin about general laws, but we should also learn their positions and methods for observing and solving problems. Not only should we study the general theory of Marxism, but we should also study China's history and current situation, deduce the regularities from it, and transform Marxism into a Chinese form.

Third, demonstrating conscious initiative and mastering objective laws. Firstly, research is necessary. Research is the prerequisite for understanding objective laws. Research has a particularly important meaning for Chinese Communists. Because the Chinese Revolution does not have existing experiences to draw from, only through research can we understand China's unique national conditions and find the unique path for the Chinese Revolution. Based on the extensive research experience during the period of Land Revolution War, Mao Zedong summarized two points on how to conduct good research: One is "to keep eyes groundward and not just look up into the sky. Without the interest and determination to look down, one will never truly understand the matters of China in his lifetime."; the other is to hold research meetings, not to rush through or merely listen to the reports of a few grassroots leaders, but to squat down, hold various types of discussions among the masses, and conduct in-depth investigations. Mao Zedong emphasized the mass point of view on how to conduct a good research meeting, "Without fervor, determination to look down, desire for knowledge, and the spirit to put down one's airs and willingly be a student, one can never do it well. It must be understood that the masses are the real heroes, and we often seem naive and ridiculous, without understanding this, we cannot gain basic knowledge." 。



Secondly, it is necessary to find out the laws of things. The perceptual materials obtained through investigation are still semi-finished products. It is necessary to fully play the role of the brain as a processing factory, find out the internal connections of things, and form concepts and laws. Mao Zedong summarized this manufacturing process as a process of refining the rough, keeping the true, going from one to the other, and going from the surface to the inside.
The ideological line of seeking truth from facts formed during the Yan'an Rectification Movement became a theoretical weapon for unifying the party's ideological understanding, and promoted the unity and unity of our party under the banner of Mao Zedong Thought.
Section Three The Construction of Party Organizations
1. Democratic centralism is the fundamental organizational principle of the proletarian party
The construction of party organizations is an important part of Marxist party-building doctrine. Lenin pointed out: "The reason why the proletariat can become and must become an invincible force is because the ideological unity formed by it according to Marxist principles is consolidated by the material unity of the organization, which unites millions of workers into a large army of the working class." Only by going through the organization, the correct theory, program and line of the party can be transformed into a huge material force, and the role of the command center of the proletarian political party can be maximized.
The proletarian party is the vanguard of the working class and the leading core and command center of the entire class. The nature and mission of the party determine that it must take democratic centralism as its organizational principle. This is because: as a political party that is the leading core of the entire class, it must possess the leadership force to seize political power, build socialism, and achieve the great goal of communism. In this, not only must there be a correct theory, program and line, but also rely on its solid organization and unanimity, to maintain the unity of thought and politics and unity of organization and action of the entire party. Only by using the organizational principle of democratic centralism can we mobilize the enthusiasm of all members to the greatest extent, unify the will and action of the entire party, and win the victory of the proletarian revolutionary cause.
The emergence and development of democratic centralism has gone through a long historical process.
Marx and Engels attached great importance to the construction of the party in the struggle to establish the proletarian political party. The Communist League’s charter and the draft of the International Workers’ Association's common charter and organizational regulations approved by the summer committee in 1872, which they presided over, are important documents reflecting the doctrine and organizational principles of the Marxist party. Although Marx and Engels did not use the concept of democratic centralism in these documents, they always embodied the principle of unity of democracy and centralism. From Marx and Engels' thoughts and practices, their main contents about the party's organizational principles are as follows: the organizational structure of the party reflects the union and international both have relatively complete organizational systems that unify democracy and centralism. At the first congress of the Communist League held in June 1847, the organization of the alliance was determined to be composed of branches, districts, general districts, central committees, and congresses. The charter of the alliance stipulates that the highest leadership body of the alliance is the central committee as the executive body of power. The organizational system of the first international is more complete than the Communist League. The highest authority of the First International is the International Congress.



During the closing of the Congress, the General Committee elected by the Congress executes the resolutions of the congress. Within the General Committee, there is a core organization, the Standing Committee. The Standing Committee is composed of the Chairman of the General Committee, the General Secretary, and the communicative secretaries of various countries. The organizations of various national associations are called Joint Committees. Underneath the Joint Committees are local groups, branches, and small groups. From this, it can be seen that the international organizational structure is actually the prototype of the organizational structure of modern communist and workers' parties in various countries.

Regarding the bottom-up electoral system, the alliance implements a bottom-up electoral system. The draft of the statutes passed at the first congress of the Communist League states that each branch elects its own leader, and the responsibilities are chosen from the committee's leaders. The Central Committee is elected by the district committee where the Central Committee is located. Public officeholders are elected regularly every year, and if their work is unsatisfactory, they can be dismissed at any time. The draft also stipulates that each member of the International Workers' Association has the right to elect and to be elected, and all elected leaders have to report their work to their electorate and can be dismissed at any time.

Regarding party organization life, members (or international members) of the Communist League are all equal within the organization. As Engels pointed out, there is only one type of member in the International, and this member has equal rights and obligations, and there are no special members. The international organization life always insists on the principles of democracy and concentration where minorities obey the majority. Marx is a model for adhering to this principle.

For example, at the Basel Congress, the Bakunin faction called for a discussion on inheritance rights. Marx himself disagreed with Bakunin's view that abolition of inheritance was the starting point of the social revolution, but agreed to discuss this issue at the congress. Marx drafted a report on the inheritance issue for the General Committee, and together with Bakunin's proposal, it was discussed at the conference. The discussion resulted in neither proposal gaining a majority. In this situation, Marx did not use the authority of the General Committee to force others to accept his views, but recognized the status quo, and actively worked to let people understand this issue through practical struggle.

Regarding the principle of party activity, Marx always insisted on collective leadership in the International General Assembly. Marx was the actual leader of the International and had high prestige. However, it was not Marx who had the final say in the General Committee, but a collective discussion. Any proposal is only effective after majority approval. When the General Committee discusses issues, each member has full speaking rights, can speak freely, express their own opinions, but each person's speech must not exceed five minutes. On Marx's proposal, the Executive Chairman of the General Committee's weekly meeting was to take turns serving.

On relations between leaders and the masses, Marx and Engels always treated this issue with democratic and equal principles, and set a brilliant example for the organization construction of the proletarian party.


Marx and Engels are recognized as the leaders of the international communist movement and activists of socialist parties in Europe and America, who continue to consult with them on theories and strategies for revolution. However, they always treat everyone equally, offering advice and discussing matters as regular soldiers. They oppose worship from others and strictly prohibit others from praising themselves. Marx once pointed out that he and Engels "both regard fame as worthless" and "because of my disgust with all personal worship, while the International was in existence, I never allowed the publication of the many praises from various countries that disgusted me. I never even responded to them, and when I did, it was to reprimand. The terms Engels and I had in mind when we first joined the Communist secret society were to abandon everything conducive to superstition of authority in the statutes." Regarding the party's organizational discipline, the Charter of the Communist League specifies that all members must maintain political consistency with the league, their "ways of life and activities must be in line with the purpose of the League"; they must "not join any anti-Communist (political or ethnic) groups"; they must "obey all resolutions by the League", etc. If these conditions are not complied with, they will be deemed as a "betrayal of the League" and depending on the severity, they may be suspended or expelled from the league. Marx believed that strict discipline is necessary for the victory of the proletariat. He pointed out: "We must now uphold the discipline of the party absolutely, otherwise everything will come to nothing."

At the end of the 19th century and the beginning of the 20th century, as capitalism developed into imperialism and the revolutionary struggle of the proletariat entered a special stage of seizing power, Lenin timely formulated special organizational principles—centralism—for the Russian Social Democratic Labor Party. From 1899 to 1904, Lenin emphasized repeatedly the need to build the party according to the principle of centralism. In 1899, he explicitly proposed the principle of centralism in his article "Our Current Task" for the first time. Lenin believed that the new type of proletariat party established according to the principle of centralism has two main characteristics: first, the party's local activities must be completely free, while also setting up a unified and therefore centralized party; second, the party should strive to become a revolutionary party with the main goal of fighting for political freedom, and at the same time resolutely not plan political conspiracies. The two aspects put forward by Lenin have three important significances: first, it is not only a profound summary of the historical experience of the international communist movement, but also a political remedy for opposing and overcoming the group habits that were widely prevalent when the Russian Social Democratic Labor Party was established; second, it not only clearly proposed the principle concept of centralism but also made it one of the main characteristics of the new type of proletariat party, which distinguishes it from other worker parties; third, it proposed opposing a small group of conspiratorial organizations, which not only distinguishes the centralism of the new proletariat party from the different types of centralism that have appeared in history, but also made an unconscious theoretical preparation for the later proposal of the democratic centralism principle.

However, at the time, the biggest obstacle to implementing centralism was Economism. Economism believed that implementing centralism violated the principle of democracy. Lenin pointed out in his book "What is to be Done?" that the necessary conditions for implementing democratic principles are complete openness, election system, and general supervision. But under the Tsarist autocracy, implementing such a democracy is like a group of peasants taking wooden sticks to fight against the Tsar's spies, detectives, and gendarmerie who have all the best equipment, often resulting in immediate failure at the start of the action. Therefore, the party can only implement centralism. Not only that, Lenin made an unprecedented systematic elaboration of the principle of centralism, and further formulated specific implementation details, thereby developing the centralism idea into an actionable and more complete organizational system. In 1903, at the Second Congress of the Russian Social Democratic Labour Party, the party split into Bolshevik and Menshevik factions. This one-party two-faction situation continued for nearly a decade.




The struggle between two factions around organizational issues, whether in terms of time, scale, or intensity, far exceeded that with the economic faction. The Mensheviks fiercely criticized the principle of centralization in order to replace it with self-government, claiming that centralization was a "bureaucratic" centralization, accusing Lenin of wanting to turn the party into a "large factory" with the Central Committee acting as the factory director, implementing "serfdom" within the party, and turning party members into "small wheels" and "small screws". They believed that the party should be the sum of all autonomous committees, and that each part of the party should not be subject to the whole, but should have autonomy over the whole. To counteract the Mensheviks, Lenin published the famous book "One Step Forward, Two Steps Back" in 1904, which profoundly criticized the Mensheviks' absurd views on organizational issues, highly praised the idea of centralization, and comprehensively explained the organizational principles of centralization. In the book, Lenin repeatedly emphasized that the principle of centralism was the most basic and principled idea in the plans to establish the Iskra group. With centralization, the intellectual authority of the party would become the authority of power. "The idea of centralization is the principle method of resolving all local and detailed organizational issues," "it is the only principled idea". Following this, Lenin further proposed the principle of implementing centralization. He believed that for the party to carry out its work correctly, it needed to have the principles of the minority obeying the majority, individuals obeying the organization, lower levels obeying higher levels, and local areas obeying central command. If "there is no principle of the minority obeying the majority, no principle of parts obeying the whole, then it is simply unimaginable". Lenin proposed that the principle of centralization must be reflected in the party's organizational charter. Because "the charter is the formal expression of organization". Forming a good charter is the fundamental organizational measure to ensure the implementation of the principle of centralization. Only by strictly adhering to this charter can we rid ourselves of the stubborn self-willedness of groups, the arbitrary mess caused by groups, and the pointless squabbles of groups. Therefore, the principle of centralization, "should run through the entire party charter". As such, the idea of centralization has transformed from theory into practice, turned into the party's law, transformed into the will of the entire party, thus transforming into the material weapon for destroying the despotic system of the exploiting class.

II. The Chinese Communist Party's Continuation and Development of the Proletarian Organizational Principle

Democratic centralism is our party's fundamental organizational principle and a core tenet of Mao Zedong's party building theory. In the long-term practice of revolutionary struggle, Chinese Communists, represented by Mao Zedong, continuously developed and perfected the principle of democratic centralism, greatly enriching and developing the theory of Marxist-Leninist democratic centralism.

Before the founding of the Chinese Communist Party, Mao Zedong discussed and studied the issue of party building according to what organizational principles, with Chinese revolutionary intellectuals who initially embraced communist ideas, represented by the likes of Li Dazhao, Chen Duxiu, Cai Hesen and Zhou Enlai. On August 13th and September 16th of 1920, Cai Hesen wrote two long letters to Mao Zedong from Germany, introducing Lenin's party building theory and also elaborating his basic views on the party's organizational issues. Regarding the party's organizational principles, Cai Hesen stated: "The Bolshevik Party is organized as a highly centralized organization, the party discipline is as strong as iron, it can only be so to nurture a minority of highly conscious organized members, suitable for wartime and for taking on the enormous task of transformation". Cai Hesen also proposed: "The supreme organ of the party is the Central Committee. All sorts of activities and parts of the party, including newspapers, parliaments, groups and various movements, must be absolutely subject to the command and supervision of the Central Committee." In his reply, Mao Zedong stated: "Your letter is very insightful, there is not a word I disagree with." Under their advocacy, our party was established from the beginning according to the principle of democratic centralism. The principles of democratic centralism were already embodied in the program passed by the first party congress, and the party constitution from the second, third and fourth party congresses.



In June 1927, the Central Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China, by the delegation of the fifth party congress, explicitly proposed and affirmed the principle of democratic centralism in the "Party Construction" chapter of the "Resolution on the Third Amendment to the Constitution of the Communist Party of China", marking its first appearance in the Chinese Communist Party Charter. The party Charter approved at the sixth party congress in July 1928, preliminarily elucidated the content of democratic centralism. In December 1929, in the Gutian Conference Resolution drafted by Chairman Mao, C. Mao argued for closely integrating ideological construction with organizational building based on the democratic centralism, advocating eradication of extreme democracy and correction of non-organizational viewpoints, and emphasized that minority must obey majority under centralized guidance and democratic lifestyle.

In 1937, China was facing the severe situation of imminent fully-fledged invasion by Japanese imperialism. To rally the masses to join the Anti-Japanese United Front and jointly strive to defeat Japanese imperialism, Chairman Mao, in the summary of the National Representative Conference of the Communist Party of China held in Yan'an in May 1937, not only elevated democracy to the level of "guarantee against Japanese", but also asserted to achieve the goal of overthrowing Japanese imperialism, the party must have power. How could the party gain power? Chairman Mao advocated that to empower the party, it depended on the practice of the party's democratic centralism to mobilize the full enthusiasm of the entire party. In times of reactionary and civil wars, centralism was more prominent. In the new era, centralism should be closely associated with democracy. The practice of democracy allows for full activation of party-wide enthusiasm. By fully activating party-wide enthusiasm, a large number of cadre can be trained, remnants of sectarianism can be purged, and party-wide unity can be achieved as strong as steel.

In October 1938, on the eve of shifting from strategic defense to strategic stalemate in the Anti-Japanese War, Japan shifted its main forces to the battlefields behind the enemy lines, and the KMT adopted the policy of passive resistance. Meanwhile, the Wang Ming rightism mistake of abandoning party leadership emerged within CCP. At the same time, because "our country is dominated by economies of small production and patriarchal system, and there is still no democratic life on a national scale. This situation was reflected in our party, resulting in a lack of democratic life. This phenomenon hinders the full development of the party-wide enthusiasm". In response to this situation, Mao, in the political report of the Sixth Plenary Session of the Sixth Central Committee of the Communist Party, made clear demands on how to mobilize the entire party's enthusiasm in the Anti-Japanese War by relying on democratic centralism. He said: "The Chinese Communist Party facing the great struggle demands the entire party leadership, all party members and cadre, to highly mobilize its enthusiasm for victory. The so-called enthusiasm must be concretely manifested local.creation capabilities, sense of responsibility, vitality of work, daring and good at raising questions, expressing opinions, criticizing shortcomings, and supervising leadership organs and leading cadre with a caring perspective. Without these, the so-called enthusiasm is void. The manifestation of this enthusiasm relies on the democratization of life within the party. Without democratic life within the party, the purpose of enthusiasm cannot be achieved. The creation of a large number of competent talents can only be possible in a democratic life. " In order to enhance the party's fighting capacity and break through the difficulties of war, Chairman Mao emphasized in this political report: "Expanding democracy within the party should be regarded as a necessary step to consolidate and develop the party, and an important weapon for the party to be lively and capable in the great struggle, gladly assume duties, grow new forces, and break through the difficulties of war.". He emphasized both the importance of expanding internal party democracy and the strict adherence to the discipline of "four obediences", i.e., individual obedience to organization, minority obedience to majority, lower-level obedience to a higher level, and the entire party obedience to the central. In 1945, with the victory of the Anti-Japanese War imminent, the seventh party congress was convened on the basis of rectification in Yan'an. The seventh party congress raised the understanding and argumentation of democratic centralism to the level of organizational law.


In his report on amending the Party Constitution, Liu Shaoqi pointed out: "Our party is not a simple sum of the number of party members, but a unified organism organized by all party members according to certain rules. It is a combination of party leaders and those being led; it is a unity formed by the party leaders, various levels of party organizations, and a large number of party members according to certain rules. This rule is the inner-party democratic centralism."
The Party Constitution passed by the 7th National Congress of the Party describes democratic centralism as "concentration based on democracy and democracy under centralized guidance." For the first time, it accurately expresses the dialectical relationship between democracy and centralism in a concise language. Regarding democracy under centralized guidance, there are now some criticisms, some people even think that this is the theoretical basis for bureaucratic centralism. In fact, Liu Shaoqi explained its meaning very clearly in "On the Party": Democracy under centralized guidance means that all party meetings are convened by the party's leadership; elections and resolutions within the party must be adequately prepared, carefully considered, and follow certain procedures; all party members must abide by the party constitution and uniform discipline, must obey the overall situation, obey the collective, and firmly oppose extreme democratization and anarchistic tendencies. All of these are precisely to promote democracy fully through normal procedures and channels. In specific work, some people understand democracy under centralized guidance as conducting elections and voting according to the intentions of the party leadership, which weakens and undermines inner-party democracy. This is indeed a serious problem that needs attention in party life. But it is a misunderstanding of democracy under the guidance of centralization, and democracy should not be separated from the guidance of centralization.
After the 7th congress of the party, Mao Zedong's thoughts on democratic centralism have further developed. During the liberation war period, in September 1948, Mao Zedong summarized the experience of collective leadership and drafted the resolution of "On Improving the Party Committee System" for the Central Committee, pointing out that the party committee system is an important mechanism to ensure collective leadership and prevent individual dictation. During the second plenary session of the 7th Party Congress in March 1949, Mao Zedong emphasized the working methods of the party committee, which enriched and developed the thoughts of democratic centralism, and prepared for the arrival of a new stage of party construction in organization.
Third, the basic content of party organization building
Party organization building is one of the main contents of party building, which mainly includes tasks such as the construction of the party's cadre corps, the party member corps, and democratic centralism. The building of the party's cadre corps occupies a central position in the party's organizational construction. The construction of party members is the foundation of party organization construction. The construction of democratic centralism is an important task for party organization construction. The cadre corps promotes the function and power of the party's organization. Party cadres are the backbone of party organizations, the main implementers of the party's line, guidelines, and policies, and the decisive force in realizing party leadership.
(1) "After the political line is determined, the cadres become the deciding factor.
The Chinese Communist Party has always believed that the reason why the cadre issue is important is firstly that the great revolutionary struggle requires a large number of cadres to organize and lead.


"The Communist Party of China is the party leading the great revolutionary struggle among a large nation of several hundred million people, and without a majority of leaders with both morals and talent, it cannot complete its historical mission." The correct political line must be ensured by the correct organizational line. The cadres of the party at all levels are the planners and organizers of the revolutionary cause. 

The vast majority of cadres bear the heavy responsibility of implementing and executing the party's line, guidelines, and policies, organizing and leading the masses to implement the basic line of the party at each historical stage. Only through their "leading sheep" role among the masses can the party's overall line and overall policy be transformed into the conscious action of hundreds of millions of masses, and the success of the party's cause can be achieved. Mao Zedong believed that the cadres, as a guarantee of success for all the party's undertakings, hold this importance not only for the party's overall line and overall task, but also for the specific work and tasks of a particular region or unit. In view of certain places and units where the situation cannot be improved, work cannot be advanced, and public opinion is significant, Mao Zedong pointed out: "The basic reason why many places and many organizations cannot advance their work is the lack of such a united, normal, and healthy leadership backbone. For instance, a school of a hundred people will not succeed without a few to a dozen of the most active, decent, and innovative leaders formed from teachers, staff, and students according to actuality (not forcibly gathered)."

Cadres are the bridge of the party to the masses. The party is the faithful representative of the interests of the hundreds of millions of the masses and the fighting force committed to the interests of the people. The cause of the party is the cause of the masses, and the guidelines and policies formulated by the party need to be implemented by the masses. However, for the masses to wholeheartedly follow the party, unite around the party, and engage in various undertakings under the leadership of the party, one important link is to rely on our cadres to propagate to the masses, mobilize the masses, and organize the masses. Without a large number of cadres working closely with the masses, the party cannot survive. When creating the Jinggangshan base, Mao Zedong emphasized that the cadres should "organize, train, and send the masses to the battlefield of economic construction. They are the commanders on the economic front, and the masses are the fighters." Later, Mao Zedong also considered maintaining close contact with the masses as one of the three major styles of the party. Through cadres of all levels and types, the party maintains contact with the masses, relies on them to strengthen the leadership over the masses, and completes various tasks. In this way, the party will not lose touch with the masses, and the cause of the party will be invincible.

(2) The cadre line of "employing people for their talents" and the employment standard of "both morals and talent." "On the issue of using cadres, there have always been two opposing lines in our ethnic history: one is 'employing people for their talents,' and the other is 'employing people for nepotism.' The former is the correct line, and the latter is not." The selfless nature of the proletariat determines that the Communist Party's line for employing people is "employing people for their talents." When criticizing Zhang Guozhu's line of "employing people for nepotism," Mao Zedong emphasized the need to "adhere to a fair and correct style in the cadre issue in order to consolidate the unity of the party, which is the important responsibility of the central and local leaders." Mao Zedong insisted on "five lakes and four seas," opposed factionalism and cliqueism. He once said that anyone who asked him for a job was firmly rejected. He would not introduce, recommend, speak, or write letters. This "four no's" basic point of his was a counter to nepotism.



Adhering to the cadre policy of appointing people on their merits, that is, adhering to the cadre standards of both morality and ability. “Merit" here refers to a combination of morality and ability. The Communist Party of China, based on the Marxist line of cadres, has drawn inspiration from the standards of employing talents in ancient Chinese politics, and creatively proposed the specific contents of the Party's cadre "morality" and "ability". It includes: "Understand Marxism-Leninism, have political foresight, have the ability to work, be willing to make sacrifices, be able to solve problems independently, be unshakable in difficulties, and work faithfully for the nation, for the class, and for the party." Mao Zedong summarized the standards of morality and ability as "resolutely implementing the party's line, obeying the party's discipline, having close ties with the masses, having independent working ability, being active and diligent, and not seeking personal gain."

After the cadre standards of possessing both morality and ability were established, how to identify and select talents to leadership positions at all levels is a critical issue. Regarding the inspection and recognition of cadres, Mao Zedong believed that the first step is to broaden one’s horizon and improve one’s thinking. Some comrades agree to select cadres who possess both morality and ability, but they feel that talents are hard to find. This involves not only a problem in thinking but also a lack of broader perspective. During the Land Revolution War, Mao Zedong pointed out sharply in response to individuals who frequently lamented the lack of cadres: "Are there really no cadres? Countless cadres have emerged from the land struggle, economic struggle, and revolutionary war. How can we say that there are no cadres? If we abandon the wrong view, the cadres will stand before us." Furthermore, Mao Zedong proposed the main methods to identify cadres, that is, "not only to look at the cadre's momentary actions, but also to look at the cadre's entire history and entire work." This way, mistakes in employing people can be avoided. In addition, Mao Zedong stressed that cadres should be identified, selected, and trained in the practice of revolutionary struggle and mass struggle. "Those who are truly united and connected with the masses must be gradually formed from the mass struggle, and cannot be formed apart from the mass struggle." "We must continuously promote active individuals who have emerged from struggle to replace those who are minor or corrupted in the original backbone."

(3) Cadre training and cadre education.
The proletariat revolution requires thousands of excellent cadres. To ensure successors to the revolution, The Communist Party of China pays great attention to cadre training and education. Firstly, it’s necessary to "guide them". Mao Zedong believed that cadres should be given responsibilities and let them work freely, so that they can grow their abilities in practice. In this process, it is also important to provide timely guidance. Leadership experience can only be gained after taking up leadership positions, and never before that. "To be a really capable high-level commander is not something that can be achieved by just starting out or merely talking about army matters on paper. It must be learned in war." In war, "often it is not learning first and then doing, but starting to work and then learning, doing is learning." Only in this way can one become a mature leader and make a significant contribution to the party's cause.



Secondly, to “improve them", "this refers to providing opportunities for learning, educating them, and uplifting their abilities in theory and work." Improving the quality of officials, the most important principle is to enhance Marxist theoretical knowledge among the majority of officials. Mao Zedong said: "Our vision is not enough; we should resort to telescopes and microscopes. Marx's method is the political and military equivalent of telescopes and microscopes." However, studying theory isn't about solely memorizing maxims and conclusions from revolutionary leaders. Mao Zedong repeatedly emphasized the learning method of combining theory with practice, stating that “The great power of Marxism-Leninism lies in its connection with the specific revolutionary practices of each country. For the Chinese Communist Party, it means learning to apply Marxism-Leninism theory to the specific conditions of the Chinese revolution." "Discussing Marxism without considering Chinese characteristics is simply abstract and hollow Marxism.” Mao Zedong further summarized the guideline of theoretical learning and research, which is to "establish studying the specific issues of Chinese revolution as central, with the basic principles of Marxism-Leninism as guidance", indicating the direction for officials' theoretical study.

Finally, we should care for them. The method of caring for officials is, first, to “inspect their work, help them summarize experiences, affirm their achievements, and correct mistakes." This can help them make fewer or no mistakes. "Assigning tasks without follow-up, only paying attention when serious mistakes are made, is not the way to care for officials.” The second is to properly treat officials who have made mistakes, “for those who have made mistakes, we should generally adopt persuasion methods and help them correct their mistakes." The third is "to take care of their difficulties.", "For officials who have illness, life, family and other difficulties, we must take care of them as much as possible". Cultivating new officials, especially young new officials, is of strategic significance. Some communists are not enthusiastic about selecting new officials, especially young officials, because they don't trust young officials and worry that they can't lead effectively. This is political short-sightedness. Mao Zedong believed that the tasks of Chinese revolution and construction always need young people to take over and emphasized "If our party does not have a large number of new officials working in cooperation with old officials, our cause will be interrupted." And the entire party is required to plan and cultivate a large number of new officials as a combat mission.

(4) Proper treatment of officials who have made mistakes.
In the practice of reforming society and the world, officials will inevitably make mistakes; there is no person who does not make mistakes. The Chinese Communist Party has a series of correct policies and theoretical thoughts on how to properly treat officials who have made mistakes.


Firstly, it is important to understand the root causes of mistakes, which means "focusing on the analysis of the circumstances at that time, the content of the errors, and the societal, historical, and ideological origins of the errors". Mao Zedong believed that without a concrete analysis of the causes of errors, and "overemphasizing individual responsibility", we cannot unite more people to work together, which is detrimental to the Party's cause. Secondly, there should be a correct policy for dealing with cadres who make mistakes. In response to Wang Ming and other "leftist" opportunists' policy of "brutal struggle", "ruthless blow", and "killing with one stick" towards cadres who make mistakes, Mao Zedong emphasized: "The purpose of us exposing errors and critiquing shortcomings is completely to help people, not to kill them. Treatment of ideological and political problems must not be taken recklessly, and should adopt 'cure the disease and save people', which is the correct and effective method." Mao Zedong further specified this policy of punishing the past and healing the people into the formula of "unity—critique—unity", which starts from the desire for unity, resolves contradictions through criticism or struggle, and achieves new unity on a new basis. The Chinese Communist Party was able to keep the majority of cadres closely united under the Party's banner and achieve one great victory after another precisely because it adhered to this correct policy. Finally, cadres who make mistakes should have a correct attitude towards their own mistakes. Any shortcomings and errors can cause harm to the party and the people. This requires leaders at all levels of the party to adopt a serious attitude in the face of mistakes, humbly accept the criticism and help of others, carefully summarize experiences and lessons and do a better job in the future. Mao Zedong has always advocated allowing others to make mistakes and to correct them. However, he is against concealing faults and persisting in mistakes, which not only "harms the group, but also harms the individual".

The construction of democratic centralism: The construction of democratic centralism is an important task in the party's organizational construction. Only by implementing democratic centralism can we establish a complete and strict organizational system of the party, and unite all party members and various organizations of the party into a unified whole. This can then correctly handle the relationship between party leaders and those being led, higher-level organizations with lower-level ones, individual party members with the party organization, realize normalization of internal political life in the party, and enhance the initiative of the entire party. This in turn can establish a scientific leadership system and work system, thereby formulating and implementing correct lines, principles, and policies, and realizing the correct leadership of the party.

As for the basic connotation of democratic centralism, the Party believes that democratic centralism combines democracy and leadership, and is the application of Marxist epistemology and the mass line in the party's life and organizational construction. This summary reflects the essential features of democratic centralism and clarifies the interrelation between democracy and centralism. In democratic centralism, democracy and centralism, as categories of party organization principles, are interdependent, mutually restrictive, and dialectically unified. Mao Zedong said, "Democratic centralism is democratic, and it is also centralized. It unifies two seemingly conflicting things in a certain form", "There is no impassable gorge between democracy and centralism". This dialectical relationship between democracy and centralism is specifically manifested in: on the one hand, democracy is the basis and premise of centralism. Without widespread democracy as the foundation, correct opinions cannot be centralized, and the enthusiasm of party members and the masses cannot be aroused. Such centralism can only be empty and false. Only centralism based on full democracy is correct and has authority. On the other hand, democracy is restricted by centralization and carried out under centralized guidance. Centralization is a requirement of democracy itself. Because only under centralized guidance can democracy have the correct direction, and the organization of the party and the initiative and creativity of the party can be better exerted. Without centralization, it is impossible to form a unified opinion, and it is difficult to get anything done, and democracy cannot be realized.



Therefore, when we emphasize the promotion of democracy, we must pay attention to maintaining the central unity of the party; when we emphasize centralization, we must also pay attention to taking democracy as the foundation. We cannot one-sidedly emphasize democracy or one-sidedly emphasize centralization. To adhere to the democratic centralism, we must oppose the two erroneous tendencies of personal arbitrary rule, patriarchal system, extreme democratization, and anarchism, and we must overcome the problems of insufficient democracy and insufficient centralization.

After the democratic centralism was written into the constitution as a guiding principle, our party's understanding of this principle is a continuous development process. Since 1927, looking at the party's history of building the party, we are certainly using democratic centralism to guide the party's organizational activities. However, there are not only extremely rich experiences but also profound lessons. In the party's historical documents, in the reports and works of Mao Zedong, Liu Shaoqi, Zhou Enlai, Deng Xiaoping, and others, a summary of the experiences and lessons has been theoretically summarized and concluded, gradually forming some basic viewpoints on this system that have been popular in the party for a long time.

First, democracy and centralization must be carried out simultaneously, and neither side can be neglected. This is the most basic viewpoint our party adopts in implementing the principle of democratic centralism. The Resolution of the Gutian Conference proposed the principle of strict democratic life under centralized guidance in the organization. This has organically unified democracy and centralization, showing the dialectical relationship between the two. By the Yan'an Rectification period, after learning Marxist-Leninist party-building theory and a deep summary of historical experience, we realized that "democratic centralism means both democracy and centralization. Without the leadership at the top and democracy at the bottom, anarchy will result, and no tasks will be well accomplished. On the contrary, if there is only leadership at the top but no democracy at the bottom, shortcomings cannot be exposed, and work cannot be improved".  Mao Zedong and Liu Shaoqi used the same two phrases-worded differently in the reports made by the Seventh National Congress of the Party, "Centralization based on democracy, and democracy under central guidance" to summarize the content of democratic centralism and explain the dialectical relationship between democracy and centralization. At the same time, they also pointed out that although the emphasis on democracy and centralization can vary in practice due to different conditions, neither can be neglected. Both the tendency towards extreme democratization and the tendency towards bureaucratic centralization are unacceptable. Since then, the party has established a party committee system during the war of liberation, established a system of reporting for approval, and improved the working methods of the party committee. All of these were made under the guidance of the aforementioned basic viewpoint.

Secondly, the "Four Subordinations" is an important principle of democratic centralism, and it is also our disciplinary principle and party spirit manifestation. The "Four Subordinations" is, in general, an important manifestation of the party's centralization, while "minority subordination to the majority" is also a reflection of the party's democratic system. In October 1938, Mao Zedong summarized historical experiences in his report at the Sixth Plenary Session of the Sixth Central Committee of the Party, and concisely summarized party discipline as: individuals are subordinate to the organization; the minority is subordinate to the majority; lower levels are subordinate to higher levels; the party is subordinate to the central committee. At the same time, he pointed out that these "Four Subordinations" are also important principles of democratic centralism. The Sixth Plenary Session of the Sixth Central Committee of the Party accepted Mao Zedong's opinions and wrote them into the political resolution. In 1940, the Central Committee issued a "Decision on Enhanced Party Spirit," treating the "Four Subordinations" as an important manifestation of the party spirit, and called on the entire party to use it for self-checks and to correct violations of the "Four Subordinations." Hence, the viewpoint that the "Four Subordinations" is both a principle of democratic centrality and a discipline principle and party spirit manifestation was established in the entire party..


Starting from the seventh party congress, subsequent party constitutions have explicitly stipulated this.
Thirdly, we should pay more attention to the construction of inner-party democracy. Just as our party's strength was like "sparks of stars" in 1929, Chen Duxiu seized the fact that inner-party democracy was normally shrinking, and attacked and even slandered the Central Committee of the party by saying that it had completely abolished "minimal democracy"! At this time, the Central Committee rightly responded that the extent of party democratization is determined by objective and subjective conditions. If the objective white terror is extremely severe, and demands for democratization beyond what is possible, it is just a method for "helping Russian Tsar's constitutional police" (as Lenin once said). With the great improvement of the revolutionary situation, the fundamental change in objective conditions, Mao Zedong pointed out at the Sixth Plenary Session of the Sixth Party Congress in 1938: "Expanding inner-party democracy should be seen as a necessary step to consolidate and develop the party, and to make the party lively and active in the great struggle, fulfilling the task joyfully, creating new power, and breaking through the difficulties of war as a key weapon." By 1945, our party's view on promoting inner-party democracy as much as possible based on conditional permission had matured even more. At that time, Liu Shaoqi, based on the objective conditions in Yan’an and various liberated areas, stated in his report at the Seventh Congress of the Party: "Now it is necessary to let go and expand our party’s democratic life. We must implement high levels of inner-party democracy, and at the same time implement the party's leadership in highly centralized basis."

Based on the above fundamental views, the party emphasizes the necessity to handle the following relationships in implementing the principle of democratic centralism.
(1) The relationship between democracy and centralization.
The relationship between democracy and centralization in democratic centralism is a dialectical and unified relationship. They are two contradictory aspects of the same unity, they are contradictory, and they are also unified. Their contradiction lies in: democracy emphasizes the full free expression of individual will (before centralization), while centralization emphasizes the constraint of individual will by the will of the majority gathering together, emphasizing the individual will obedience. Their unity lies in: democracy is the method, foundation, and process of centralization, while centralization is the destination, result, and process of democracy. A correct concentration is inseparable from democracy, and true democracy cannot be without concentration. Concentration without democracy is a tree without roots, and democracy without concentration is a flower without fruit, both can't truly achieve unification of will and action.
Concentration without democracy is despotism. Despotism and arbitrariness, because they lack a democratic foundation and mass foundation, inevitably lead to individualism and anarchy in execution. Democracy without concentration is extreme democratization, which directly leads to anarchy. It can be seen that concentration without democracy and democracy without concentration, although different in approach, ultimately lead to anarchy.
In the process of the party's implementation of democratic centralism, there has been a tendency to split the two or even juxtapose them against each other, each emphasizing one aspect while denying the other, holding to one end.



Under normal circumstances, the emphasis on democracy by the public, individuals, and team members, and the emphasis on centralization by leaders, organizations, and secretaries are all aspects of one-sidedness. Some practice pragmatism in implementing the democratic centralism system, emphasizing democracy to superiors and centralization to subordinates. Some only pay attention to the unity of the form of democracy and centralization, and sever the content of the two. Formally, democracy is followed by centralization, the masses are democratic, the leadership is centralized, the members are democratic, the secretaries are centralized, but the will of centralization is not the will of the majority of people in the democratic process, but the personal will of the leaders. This form of democratic centralism also violates the democratic centralism, and it is impossible to really unify the will.

(2) The relationship between individuals and organizations.
The individual members of the party are subject to the party's organization, which is an important principle of party life. The individual party member is an element that constitutes the organization, and the organization is the sum of individual party members, but it is not as simple as simple addition. Party members obey the party's organization to achieve unity of will and consistency of action. Only when each party member's will is fully expressed and the initiative, positivity, and creativity are fully exploited, can the organization have vitality and achieve the real unity of will and action. Therefore, the submission of party members to the organization should be based on democracy. Democratic decision-making, unified action, this is an accurate summary of the relationship between individual party members and the party's organization. In dealing with the relationship between individuals and organizations, there are problems with some party members not obeying the organization's decisions and not implementing resolutions. There are also situations where some party members are unable to fully express their will and blindly obey. In the life of the party, ordinary party members often take a negative attitude towards the decisions of the organization, and cadre party members often consider themselves special members, refusing to execute or even arbitrarily changing organizational resolutions. This is not permitted by the principle of organization and organizational discipline.

(3) The relationship between the minority and the majority.
The minority obeys the majority, which is the most basic principle of the democratic centralism system. Implementing the principle of democratic centralism requires thorough adherence to the principle of minority obeying the majority, which can prevent authoritative decision-making, power decision-making, and arbitrariness. But because humans' understanding of truth is not linear but curved, truth is often first discovered by a few. Therefore, the minority and the majority are mutually transformable. Therefore, in implementing democratic centralism and handling the relationship between the minority and the majority, the correct principle is to obey the majority and respect the minority.
In the life of the party and leadership work, violating the principle of minority obedience to the majority, ordinary party members and a few members often fail to obey the decisions made by the organization according to the will of the majority during the process of implementing decisions, and party member cadres and secretaries often make major issues personal. The principle of obeying the majority is violated. To strictly implement the principle of minority obeying majority, it is very important to implement a voting system for major issues on the basis of full democratic discussion.



(4) Relationship between lower-level and higher-level organizations.
Lower-level organizations obey the higher-level organizations, which is an important organizational principle of the party. However, such obedience is not blind. Before making decisions about the lower-level organizations, higher-level organizations should fully listen to the opinions of the lower-level organizations and try to achieve consistency between the two levels. During implementation, if the lower-level organizations have different opinions, the higher-level organizations should listen humbly and make appropriate adjustments or handle ideological and political work. Therefore, the correct way to handle the relationship between the two is to obey the higher-level organization while respecting the lower-level organization, so that they can coordinate and be consistent. In the party life and leadership work, there are frequent cases where higher-level organizations disrespect lower-level organizations, and lower-level organizations do not obey higher-level organizations. Certain higher-level organizations, when making decisions on major issues, neither investigate nor listen to the opinions of the lower-level organizations. This decision-making approach, characterized by subjectivism, bureaucracy, condescension, and arbitrary commands, does not conform to reality and causes resistance in the lower-level organizations, rendering the resolutions unenforceable. Some lower-level organizations do not understand the overall requirements, some even act based on local interests, adopting a pragmatic attitude towards the decisions of the higher-level organization - implementing advantageous policies and refusing to implement disadvantageous ones with the excuse that they do not conform to reality, or arbitrarily changing the decisions of the higher-level organization. These do not comply with the party's organizational principles.

(5) Relationship between all party organizations and the central committee.
All party organizations obey the central committee, which is the most important principle in the basic principles of democratic centralism. In this relationship, the central committee respects the innovative spirit of all party organizations and actively solicits their opinions and suggestions. All organizations must strictly obey the central committee and, under the premise of conscientiously implementing the central committee's line, guiding principles, policies, and resolutions, execute them creatively in accordance with the reality of their unit, department, or region. In the party life and leadership work, some party organizations refuse to execute the central committee's policies and decisions based on their local interests. Some even brazenly defy the central committee's decisions under the banner of "grounded in reality and executing creatively," which is not permitted by the party's political discipline.

(6) Relationship between collective leadership and individual division of responsibility.
The system of collective leadership and individual division of responsibility is an important system of democratic centralism and an important leadership system of the party. Collective leadership and individual division of responsibility are both indispensable. The principle of collective leadership is the work system of the party committee.



In the leadership work of the Party, all major matters related to the Party's line, principles, and policies, the deployment of major tasks, the appointment, dismissal, mobilization and handling of cadres, and major issues related to the interests of the masses must be collectively discussed and decided by the Party committee, and must not be arbitrarily determined by individuals or a minority. In the execution of decisions and in the daily work of the Party, the system of individual division of labor and responsibility must be implemented. For decisions made collectively, responsibility and authority should be allocated, tasks should be carried out separately, and everyone should be responsible for their own tasks. Those who neglect their duty should be held accountable. 

Without collective leadership, the scientific and authoritative nature of decisions cannot be guaranteed, and even because of the lack of restriction by the collective, there could be personal arbitrariness, and personal gains can be sought in the decision-making of major issues. Without the system of individual division of labor and responsibility, the collective decision could be shelved due to unclear responsibilities, and no one would be accountable, making it impossible to implement. Mao Zedong made a succinct summary of collective leadership and personal division of responsibility: "Great powers are centralized, small powers are decentralized; Party committees decide, all sides go to work, they have decisions in their work, they don't deviate from the principles, check the work, and the Party committees are responsible." This has important guiding significance in handling the relationship between collective leadership and individual division of responsibility by the Party committee.

In dealing with the relationship between collective leadership and individual responsibility, there are often major problems and it is difficult to distinguish them from daily work, resulting in issues that should have been collectively decided not being decided collectively, which weakens collective leadership, affects the decision-making level, and results in decision-making errors. Problems that should not be collectively decided are collectively decided, which causes inefficiency in work operation. Both of these situations should be avoided as much as possible.

The responsibilities of the Party committee's collective leadership can be summarized according to the principle of scientific leadership: defining goals, establishing norms, delegating authority, supervising and inspecting, responding to randomness, solving difficulties, conducting research, and creating conditions. This should be the focus of collective leadership.

On the basis of correctly handling the above relationships, the Party has proposed the following basic ideas and approaches to adhering to and improving democratic centralism in practice: (1) Strengthening the education on the Party's democratic centralism and enhancing the consciousness of implementing democratic centralism.

In the construction of the Party's democratic centralism, some Party members and Party organizations have weak perceptions about the Party, the concept of Party spirit, and the idea of the Party's organizational discipline, which is an important ideological cause for the weak implementation of democratic centralism. Therefore, it is necessary to strengthen the education on the Party's democratic centralism, with a focus on educating Party members and cadres on the Party's concept, the concept of Party spirit, and the concept of the Party's organizational discipline, so as to enhance the consciousness of implementing democratic centralism.

In the education on the Party's concept, Party members and cadres should clearly understand the core leadership status and key role of the Party. The Party has a core leadership status in its relationship with other organizations. The Party plays a key role in the progress and development of the revolutionary cause. This status and role of the Party determine the extreme importance of adhering to democratic centralism, realizing the unity of the Party's organization, will, and action. It should be made clear that only Party members and cadres who recognize the Party's core leadership and key role can consciously implement the principles of democratic centralism.

In the education of the Party spirit, Party members and cadres should understand: The Party takes the working class and the broad masses of the people as its own class basis, represents the interests of the majority of the people, strives for the interests of the majority, sacrifices their personal interests for the benefits of the majority, and sacrifices local interests for the overall interests. This is the purpose of the Party and the embodiment of Party spirit.


Only with a clear sense of the Party's mission, and Party members and cadres who possess a high level of Party consciousness, can we conscientiously adhere to the four obediences within the organization and not distort these relationships due to personal or local interests. In terms of education on Party organizational discipline, it is necessary to help Party members and cadres to correctly understand the four obediences. Even when their ideological consciousness and Party awareness have not yet reached a conscious level, they still need to follow organizational principles and accept the constraints of organizational discipline.

(2) Effectively strengthen the construction of the democratic centralism system. 
In the construction of the Party's democratic centralism, system construction is another weak link. Due to the lack of detailed system, standards and procedures for democratic centralism basic principles and fundaments in the Party's life and leadership work, it is inconvenient for Party members and cadres to follow, and also inconvenient for the organization to operate and supervise. Therefore, it's important to establish a set of clear, comprehensive systems, standards and procedures to provide reliable institutional guarantees for democratic centralism. This includes specification of the election system, rules, and procedures, and maintaining and implementing the election rights of party members, the democratic rights of party members, etc. The work decision-making system includes collective leadership system, important issue deliberation system, decision-making process, voting system, and so on. The supervision and inspection system includes the reporting system for major issues and the supervision and inspection system for decision execution, among others.

(3) A working adjustment mechanism must be established to implement the principles of democratic centralism.
In decision-making implementation, it is necessary to both prevent distortion and ensure creativity instead of mechanical implementation. To achieve this, a working adjustment mechanism must be established. Without a sound work adjustment mechanism, some party members and lower-level organizations may interpret and innovate according to their own understanding, which can have considerable arbitrariness and sometimes lead to inaccurate judgments affecting the correct execution of decisions. Therefore, to organically combine implementation with creativity in the implementation of democratic centralism, a work adjustment mechanism must be established.

(4) Improve the oversight and restraint mechanisms, and strictly enforce organizational discipline.



Supervision and discipline enforcement is the ultimate safeguard mechanism of democratic centralism. Only by integrating the principle of democratic centralism into effective supervision and by reprimanding and punishing those who violate democratic centralism can the other conditions for the implementation of democratic centralism play an effective role and form a guiding mechanism. Supervision and discipline enforcement are not only the guarantee conditions for the implementation of democratic centralism but also are powerful means and safeguard mechanisms for leadership and management. The Central Party Committee requires that every leader and manager learn to use this mechanism to implement leadership and management work, and promote the development of various undertakings. Building of Party Members
The building of party members is the foundation of party organization construction. The party is made up of party members, who are the basis of the party and the main body to implement the party's line. Strengthening the building of party members has significant importance for consolidating the party organization, maintaining the vanguard nature of the party's working-class, enhancing the relationship between the party and the masses, and fully realizing the leading role of the party. Therefore, in the construction of the party organization, the building of party members occupies a very important position.
From the establishment of the Communist Party of China in 1921 to the failure of the Great Revolution in 1927, it was the initial stage of the construction of the party members and the birth period of the theory of party members' construction. At the time of the first national congress of the Chinese Communist Party, there were only over 50 members. With the need for anti-imperialist and anti-feudal revolutionary struggles, the party seized the opportunity to expand party members and establish party organizations, constantly expanding the team of party members. By September 1927, the number had grown to 57,967, giving the team of party members an initial scale. However, due to the infancy period of our party, it showed its immaturity in terms of party members' construction. This mainly manifested in: firstly, the unbalanced development of party members. Judging from the distribution of party members in April 1927, most were concentrated in the southern provinces such as Hubei, Hunan, Zhejiang, and Guangdong, and there were fewer party members in the northern provinces. The proportion of workers was more, and there were fewer party members from other labor classes. There were more male members and fewer female members. Secondly, the discussion on the theory of party members' construction was limited to the development of party members and the education of party members, and overlooked the importance of developing party members among farmers and soldiers. Thirdly, Chen Duxiu believed that "the increase in the number of party members is the first important issue". If "we don't rush to increase the number of party members, it is negligence of the party, and it is a reactionary act". This wrong guiding ideology led to the blind pursuit of quantity over quality in the development of party members. This is an important lesson from the construction of party members during this period. After the failure of the Great Revolution in 1927, the party suffered a terribly heavy defeat. Many Communist Party members and revolutionary masses were brutally killed, and the number of party members dropped from over 57,000 to about 10,000. The revolution was in extreme danger. At the critical juncture of the Chinese Revolution, the party held the August 7 Conference, corrected Chen Duxiu's right-leaning mistakes, and established the overall policy of land revolution and armed resistance to the reactionary Kuomintang. Subsequently, rural revolutionary bases were established, opening the road to surround the cities from the countryside and to seize power by force, and the focus of party work shifted from cities to rural areas. Building the party in rural areas and the Red Army were new problems encountered in the history of Marxist party building. Representatives of the Chinese Communist Party, led by Mao Zedong, with an extraordinary pioneering spirit, successfully solved the problem of party member construction in theory and practice. However, during this period, "a part of the party's leadership did not manage to hold the correct political line and organizational line throughout this stage", and the party suffered the damage of "left- leaning" mistakes. Especially Wang Ming's "left-" leaning mistakes almost destroyed the Chinese revolution.


In terms of the party member team construction, the main manifestations of Wang Ming's "leftist" mistakes were: the development of party members' "only factor theory"; the indexation and rush of party member collection; in the party life, he practiced patriarchy and implemented "brutal struggle" and "relentless attack" from inside the party. Due to Wang Ming's "left" error, the party suffered severe losses.
Therefore, from the party's 1921 Eighth Seventh Conference to the 1935 Zunyi Conference, it was a period of tortuous development of the Communist Party of China’s member team, and also a period when the theoretical formation of the party member team construction. The Zunyi Conference, held in 935, ended the "left" erroneous rule of Wang Ming in the CPC Central Committee and established the correct leadership of the new Central represented by Mao Zedong, thus enabling the construction of the CPC member team to get on the right track. The Sixth Plenary Session of the Sixth Central Committee, held in 1938, established the party's Marxist organizational line, and changes to the party's organization, marked the completion of the party's organizational work transition since the Zunyi Conference, especially since the outbreak of the Anti-Japanese War. After the war of resistance entered the stalemate stage, by 1941, the construction work of the CPC member team was widely deployed, and the theory of party member team construction was further enriched and developed. From the preparation of the Yan'an Rectification Movement in May 1941 to the Seventh Plenary Session of the Sixth Central Committee in 1944, the construction of the party member team is closely linked with the Rectification Movement, indicating the deep development of the CPC party member team construction. After the successful convening of the Seventh Party Congress in April 1945, the construction of the CPC party member team formed a complete theoretical system. 
From the victory of the Anti-Japanese War in August 1945 to the establishment of the People's Republic of China on October 1, 1949, this period was an unprecedented period of grand development of the CPC party member team, as well as a period when the theoretical perfection of the party member team construction. During this period, the party, in order to win the victory of the Chinese People's War of Liberation, made some major decisions on the construction of the party members team, thereby strengthening the party's organization and enhancing the party's combat effectiveness. 
The basic experience of party member team construction in the New Democratic Revolution period is: First, the construction of the party member team must be carried out under the condition of adhering to the vanguard nature of the proletariat. In China, where there are a very small number of the proletariat and the peasants and other petty bourgeoisie make up the vast majority of the population, the construction of a mass proletarian party is a very difficult task. The Chinese Communist Party, represented by Mao Zedong, has put forward a party building line suitable to China's condition: "Firstly, it emphasizes ideological and political construction, while also focusing on organizational construction." That is to say, the construction of the party is not purely concerned with the class component of the party members, but with the proletarian transformation in the ideology of the party members and overcoming various non-proletarian ideologies. Under the guidance of this correct party building line, during the Democratic Revolution, the party overcame the non-proletarian ideology existing among party members through strengthen ideological construction. The large number of party members are trained to be strong proletarian vanguard soldiers, and the party is built into a mass, strong proletarian party.
Second, in the work of attracting party members, it is necessary to properly handle the relationship between quantity and quality. In the work of developing party members, quantity and quality are two contradictory aspects, and they are dialectically unified. On the one hand, the work of developing party members cannot go without a certain number and rules. The arduous task of the Chinese revolution requires the Chinese Communist Party to have enough strength to undertake the important task of leading the Chinese revolution. Therefore, the party must continually add fresh blood, and conscientiously and prudently incorporating outstanding elements who meet the conditions into the party's organization. On the other hand, the work of developing party members should also pay attention to quality.



Because the quality of party members directly affects the nature of the party, which is directly related to the implementation of the party's line, principles, and policies and the play of its leading role. Therefore, the quality issue is the core of the development of party member work and cannot talk about the growth in the number of party members without considering the quality. During the democratic revolution, the successful experience of our party was: to develop quantity based on ensuring the quality of party members, never pursue quantity one-sidedly and neglect quality.

Third, the development of the party's organization must follow the correct guidelines. During the democratic revolution, there were two error tendencies concerning the development of party members: one is laissez-faire and disregard for quality; the other is separatism, rejecting people who apply for party membership and meet the conditions of becoming party members. These two tendencies have hindered the normal development of the party. In the struggle against these two tendencies, our party proposed the correct guideline of "boldly develop and don't let a bad element in", which both overcame separatism and greatly developed the party's organization while maintaining the purity of the party. 

Fourth, to improve the party's combat effectiveness, it is necessary to seriously carry out party member education. Through education, party members are expected: In terms of thought, to strengthen party spirit, firmly establish a revolutionary worldview; politically, to be loyal to the party, firm in stance, willing to sacrifice everything personally and never betray the party; organizationally, to enhance party consciousness, perform party member duties, maintain party unity, strictly observe party discipline; in work, to be proficient in business, work actively, and dedicate to serving the people. Party member education runs through the entire history of the party, must submit to and serve the party's line and central work, must be based on helping party members establish a proletarian worldview, and must strengthen education at historical turning points. The guideline, way, and method of education are to adhere to the principle of linking theory with practice, layering education, self-direction, tightening the party's organizational life, and collectively carrying out party rectification, etc.

The rich experience accumulated over a long period of revolutionary struggle, enrich and improve the theory and policy of the party's team building.

Firstly, the correct guideline for party member team building has been formulated. That is, the guideline of "boldly develop and not let a bad person in". Overcoming the "separatist tendency", and to improve the "vigilance against spies and opportunists taking the opportunity to infiltrate". The long-term guiding principle of party member team building, is what Mao Zedong proposed, "The Communist Party should display its high positivity in the national war; and this positivity, should be specifically displayed in all aspects, that is, it should play a pioneering and exemplary role in all aspects." Communist Party members should be "models of bravery, command execution, discipline adherence, political work, and internal unity"; models of extreme honesty, non-use of private, more work, less reward; models of seeking truth from facts, far-sighted models, learning models. Only when Communist party members "highly play their pioneering and exemplary role, can mobilize all the vitality of the nation, and struggle to overcome difficulties, defeat enemies, and build New China".

Secondly, the standard for Communist Party members has been specifically and accurately proposed. That is, fight for communism all the life; the interests of the revolution are above all else; abide by party rules, strictly serve party secrets; perseverance in implementing decisions; role model for the masses; learning. Chen Yun believes that only those who meet the above six conditions are worthy of being a good Communist Party member and will not tarnish the great and glorious title of party members.



Thirdly, the issue of "party members" was comprehensively and scientifically elaborated. In the Party Constitution adopted at the Seventh Congress of the Party, the "party member" section consists of 13 articles, including the basic conditions for party membership, the obligations of party members, the rights of party members, the development of party members, and issues related to party members leaving or withdrawing from the party. Among them, the obligations and rights of party members are stipulated for the first time. The Party Constitution stipulates that the obligations of party members are: ① to strive to improve their consciousness and understanding of Marxism-Leninism and Mao Zedong Thought; ② to strictly abide by party discipline, actively participate in the political life within the party and the revolutionary movement within the country, implement the policies and resolutions of the Party and its organizations in practice, and struggle against all phenomena that harm the interests of the Party both inside and outside the Party; ③ to serve the people, consolidate the connection between the Party and the people, understand and timely reflect the needs of the people, and explain the policies of the Party to the people; ④ to model adherence to the discipline of the revolutionary government and revolutionary organizations, master their own businesses, and play a model role in various revolutionary professions. The rights of party members are: ① to participate in free and practical discussions on the implementation of party policies at party meetings or in party publications; ② the right to vote and be elected within the party; ③ to propose suggestions and statements to any organ of the party up to the central level; ④ to criticize any staff of the party at party meetings. The above provisions not only show that the Party's requirements for party members are higher and the democracy within the Party is more abundant, but also show the maturity of the Party.
 
Fourthly, the theory of Party member cultivation was established. During this period, Liu Shaoqi, combining the actual situation of the Chinese Communist Party leading the revolutionary struggle, carried out a long-term and fruitful study and exploration of the issue of Party member cultivation, and formed a complete and systematic theory unique to the Chinese Communist Party on Party member cultivation. He proposed the necessity of Party members' Party spirit cultivation; the content of Party spirit cultivation and the basic ways of Party spirit cultivation and so on. 

Fifth, the problem of party member education was successfully solved. ① The main content of education within the party: one is to carry out education on Marxism-Leninism, class and party within the party, so that party members can understand the correct relationship between Marxism-Leninism and Three Principles of the People (San Min Zhu Yi), the unified national front and class struggle, and the national and class positions. The second is to carry out education in historical materialism, so that party members can truly understand "the laws of human social historical development and the inevitable future of communist society", understand "the historical position and role of the proletariat in society, understand the interests of the proletariat and its great cause of liberating all mankind, and foresee the current tasks and fundamental goals of the Communist Party and its members". The third is to carry on education that revolution interests are above all else, to make party members actually "put the interests of the revolutionary party first, and handle all personal issues with the principle of prioritizing the revolution and party interests". The fourth is party discipline education, which makes party members "strictly abide by the basic principles where individuals obey the organization, minorities obey the majority, lower levels obey higher ones, and the whole party obeys the center". Five is education for party cadres at all levels, mainly "to effectively improve cadres' political level and work competence." ② Forms of Marxist ideological education. The Central Committee believes that the Rectification Movement is a good form for carrying out Marxist ideological education. On the one hand, it involves the serious study of Marxist writings and the files of the Central Committee, constantly improving the theoretical level of party members and achieving ideological unity; on the other hand, it involves linking theory with practice, carrying out serious criticism and self-criticism, overcoming various non-proletarian ideologies, and establishing a proletarian worldview. ③ The standardization of party school education problem. The Central Committee believes that party schools are important positions for cultivating party leaders and theoretical cadres at all levels. On this, the Central Committee stipulates: The basic task of party schools at all levels is "to educate cadres with the theory and practice of Marxism-Leninism"; teaching methods "should be from less to more, from simple to complex, from China to foreign countries, from concrete to abstract principles, in order to achieve the purpose that students can truly understand what they have learned". Learning methods should adopt the principle of mainly individual study guided by instructors, supplemented by collective study in groups.



The Sixth, the issue of the working attitude of party members and party cadres. In October 1945, Mao Zedong clarified the correct attitude that party members and party cadres should have towards work regarding the issue of a large number of party members and cadres in Yan'an heading to the front line. He pointed out, "What is work, work is struggle. Where there are difficulties, problems, we need to go and solve them. We are fighting to solve the difficulties. The more difficult places require more attention, that's what a good comrade would do." He called on party members and cadres to "enjoy giving to others, pick the heavier burdens, endure hardships before others, and enjoy after others." He required all party members going to the front line to be mentally prepared, ready to "root and blossom among the people," "establish good relationships with the masses, care for them, and help them solve their difficulties." At the same time, "tell the people, tell comrades, the road is tortuous," "prepare for a tortuous path," "we face many difficulties ahead, we cannot ignore them," and "overcome all difficulties to reach the goal of victory."

The Seventh, the issue of developing party members in the base areas. Chen Yun pointed out: to develop party members we must "adopt a prudent policy", "in the army, they must be tested in battle or in the struggle against traitors and deserters. Peasant party members must be chosen and absorbed after a test of struggle." He stressed: "The conditions for developing party members: Three Dares, that is, dare to demand land, dare to struggle, dare to arm; Three Not Afraids, that is, not afraid to leave home, not afraid of landlords, not afraid of the Kuomintang." "Adhere to active development, individual absorption."

The Eighth, the issue of party life. Chen Yun proposed three principles: ① outright and frankly clarify right and wrong; ② strictly implement democratic centralism within the party; ③ every party member has the right to express their opinions and discuss issues within the party, but also must have the obligation to obey decisions and work actively. Mao Zedong pointed out, "The party committee system is the important system of the party to ensure collective leadership and prevent individual dictatorship." He required all party committees and department party groups "must establish a sound party committee meeting system", discuss and solve major issues, and execute separately; "we must also note that collective leadership and individual responsibility must not be neglected."

The Ninth, the issue of rectifying the party member team. The Central Committee believes that enforced commands in party style, deviation from the party's line and policy in thought, tendencies of selfishness and self-interest, and impurity in composition, must be rectified. The method prescribed by the Central Committee for rectifying the party is: first convene two or three branch meetings to educate the party members and prepare their mindset. At the same time, publicize to the masses the significance and methods of rectifying the party, and publish the list of party members.


Then, convene branch meetings with the participation of representatives of the masses, carry out criticism and self-criticism, and listen to criticisms and opinions from the mass, further carrying out self-criticism and introspection within the party. Decisions are made for party members who should be disciplined, and at the same time, decisions are made to correct any improper handling in the past. Finally, through democratic elections, a powerful committee and group leader are elected to take on the regular leadership of the branch; and a system should be established for branch meetings and living, turning the branch into a true advanced conscious organization - the highest form of class organization.

Tenth, to prevent the infiltration of bourgeois thoughts, and to strengthen the ideological construction of the party. Mao Zedong pointed out: because of victory, feelings of pride in the party, the attitude of self-proclaimed meritorious, the attitude of complacency and reluctance to strive for progress, and the attitude of seeking enjoyment and unwilling to endure hardships, may grow. "Because of victory, the people thank us, and the bourgeoisie will come out to flatter.” There might be some communists who "can't withstand the attack of sugar-coated bullets," they will "defeat in front of sugar bullets." He emphasized that to capture the victory of the whole country is only the first step in the Long March, the journey after the revolutionary victory is longer and the work is more arduous. The whole party must continue to maintain the fine style of being modest, cautious, not arrogant and struggling hard.

Section 4 Party style construction

1. The construction of the party's style is a remarkable sign distinguishing the Communist Party of China from other political parties

The party's style construction is our party's unique style. Raising the issue of style to the level of worldview, linking it with the party's line for analysis and resolution, is another significant characteristic of the self-construction of the Communist Party of China, and it is organically tied to the party's ideological and organizational construction. This is a major development in the Marxist-Leninist theory of party building.

The broad connotation of party style is a stable style and spirit often, repetitively demonstrated by a political party and its members in politics, thought, organization, work, and life. The party style we usually talk about refers specifically to the style of the Chinese Communist Party, which is a conventionally used term. It refers to the excellent style of the Chinese Communist Party formed during the long-term revolutionary practice, reflecting the party's nature, purpose, and essential characteristics. The first person to propose the concept of party style and systematically discuss it is Mao Zedong. In 1942, he proposed in the article "Rectify the Party's Style" to rectify the scholarly style in opposition to subjectivity, rectify the party style in opposition to sectarianism, and rectify the literary style in opposition to party "gu". In the "On Coalition Government", he also explicitly proposed the three major styles of Communists that distinguished them from any other political parties: linking theory with reality, maintaining close ties with the masses, and criticizing and self-criticizing. In addition, the Chinese Communist Party has also formed a humble and cautious style in long-term practice, a style of in-depth reality and research, fair and square, equal treatment of people, thrift and hard work, democratic style, for truth, the style of daring to sacrifice oneself for the interests of the people, etc. These reflect the nature of the party, involve the formulation and execution of the party's lines, policies, and policies, and the realization of the party's leadership. Therefore, the construction of party style has always been an important part of party building. The introduction of party style construction theory is the enrichment and development of the theory of the building of proletarian parties by the Communist Party of China.


Firstly, the concept of party style was proposed for the first time in the history of the development of the proletariat party doctrine, adding new content of party style construction in the party building theory.
From the birth of the proletarian party, it began to form a unique style distinguished from other parties, and formed its own party style. But to obtain theoretical expression for this practically formed and existing party style, that is, to form a systematic party style construction theory, is the product of the development of the practice of party style construction to a certain stage. Looking at the development history of the proletariat parties worldwide, Marx and Engels, when establishing some proletariat parties in Europe, elaborated theoretically on why to establish independent proletariat parties, the nature of proletariat parties, worldview, programs, policies, strategies, etc., but did not directly discuss the issue of party style. The practice of party style construction during this period was centered around why to establish an independent proletariat party and how to build a party of the working-class vanguard, guaranteeing the advancement of the newly established proletariat party in thinking and politics, to take on the heavy responsibility of leading and promoting the labor movement in various countries. The statements by Marx and Engels on these aspects laid the theoretical foundation for party style construction, especially their involvement in party style and the content of party style construction in correspondence with labor movement leaders from various countries. There were two more prominent and apparent aspects.
First, the concept of "style" was proposed when discussing the personal conduct of some party members and leaders. For example, in a letter to Johann Philipp Becker, a leader of the German labor movement in 1879, Engels criticized the Socialist Reformers like Hirschberg for "smuggling the style of flattery into the party". In a letter to August Bebel in 1891, Engels pointed out that the party's leading cadres must be generous, "not so petty, less Prussian style in action." In a letter in 1895 to Filippo Turati, a prominent activist of the Italian labor movement, Engels severely criticized the Bakuninists for blindly pursuing a “style of form over substance”, which harmed the socialist party. Here, the "style" concept used by Engels mainly refers to the qualities and styles of party members and party leaders, which is just one aspect of the connotation of the broad concept of party style, but after all, the "style" concept has been proposed and is the initial form in the formation process of the party style concept. Second, when explaining their party building doctrine, they proposed some basic principles closely related to party style construction. For example, they emphasized that party members must be "pure of character," "voluntarily enlist in the ranks of fighters", "prevent the state and state organs from becoming masters of society from public servants"; "I don’t advocate erecting any dogmatic banner," "Marx’s entire worldview is not a doctrine, but a method"; "Criticism is an essential element of the labor movement"; “Ruthless self-criticism” is a manifestation of the party’s enormous internal strength, and actually proposed the idea that the proletariat must cultivate a good style closely connected with the masses, theory connected with reality, and criticism and self-criticism.
Lenin, in leading the Bolshevik Party of Russia, practiced and developed Marx’s and Engels’s ideas on party style construction, especially on strengthening style construction under party ruling conditions. After the October Revolution, Lenin criticized the bureaucratic and sluggish style of the party, warning that one of the biggest and most serious dangers for the ruling party is detachment from the masses; We must resolutely fight against the intrusion of bureaucracy and the idea of promotion and wealth into the party, and against members abusing their powers within the party and the Soviet Union. After Lenin, Stalin further proposed the concept of "working style", and further discussed the two characteristics of "Leninist style": First, the courage of revolution by the Russians; Second, the pragmatism of the Americans.


The style of Leninism is the combination of these two characteristics in the work of the party and the state. Despite the restrictions of historical conditions, Lenin and Stalin failed to explicitly propose the scientific concept of "party style" and failed to form a systematic theory of party style construction. However, they undoubtedly played a significant role in the formation of party style construction theory in terms of inheritance and development of Marx and Engels's arguments on party style construction, especially the exploration of party style construction after being in power and the struggle against bureaucratism and other improper styles. It was against the backdrop of new historical conditions of the Chinese revolution that Mao Zedong inherited and developed the thoughts of Marx, Engels, Lenin, and Stalin on party style construction. Following the path of "style" - "Leninist working style" - "party style", he summarized the fresh experiences in building a pioneering party of the working class under semi-colonial and semi-feudal conditions. He explicitly proposed the scientific concept of "party style" and established a party style construction theory with Chinese Communist characteristics. The proposal of the concept of party style is the theoretical sublimation of the unique experience of the Chinese Communist Party in style construction. The peculiar conditions for the Chinese Communist Party to carry out its own construction and lead the revolutionary struggle determine the special importance of the Party in its attitude towards Marxism, the masses of people, its own shortcomings and mistakes, and the difficulties and failures, successes and victories in revolution. To build a Marxist party in China, a semi-colonial and semi-feudal eastern country, the fundamental rule is to arm the whole party with Marxist theory. This poses a question about the attitude toward Marxism, which relates to whether the party can really become the vanguard of the working class, whether the party can truly shoulder the historical responsibility of leading the Chinese revolution, and the fate of the Chinese revolutionary cause.

In semi-colonial and semi-feudal China, the proletariat and Communists were few, and the revolutionary forces were initially just a spark or a few sparks. The enemies of the Chinese revolution were the powerful and brutal imperialism, feudalism, and bureaucratic capitalism. The Party must adhere to the attitude of historical materialism, treat the masses of people correctly, and maintain the closest contact with the masses. The national conditions of China are different from those of Western Europe and Russia, and the contradictions are very complex and special. To correctly understand the national conditions of China, formulate and implement practical lines, policies, and policies, and achieve the victory of the revolution is a very difficult task. In the process of realizing this difficult task, it is impossible to completely avoid making all kinds of mistakes. Any mistake will cause more or less damage to the people's interests. Therefore, criticism and self-criticism are indispensable for a party that is highly responsible to the masses of the people. It was under such historical conditions that our party, under the personal initiative and cultivation of Mao Zedong, gradually formed a fine style of integrating theory with practice, maintaining close ties with the masses, and carrying out criticism and self-criticism. The concept of "party style" was summed up in order to summarize the unique experience of the Chinese Communist Party in party style construction and to meet the needs of the Chinese Communist Party to build a good party style.

The concept of party style proposed by Mao Zedong, first of all, is the continuation and development of Engels’ concept of "style", Lenin's use of "style" to criticize bureaucratism and sluggardness in the Soviet state apparatus after the October Revolution, and the "Leninist working style" concept proposed and demonstrated by Stalin. This development is shown firstly in the behavior subject, extending from the attitudes and styles of individual party members or cadres to the overall image and demeanor of party organizations. The party style is not only the style of individual party members, but also the overall style of the party organization.



The second emphasis is on the breadth and depth of party style, which primarily extends from the individual character and work style of party members or officials to political, ideological, organizational, and lifestyle aspects, incorporating all learning styles and writing styles within the concept of party style, thereby revealing the inherent connections between party style, party spirit, and the party's worldview.
Secondly, the concept of party style posited by Mao Zedong discusses the importance of party style for achieving the party's political leadership, highlighting that strengthening party style construction is a crucial guarantee for implementing the party's political line.
Mao Zedong pointed out in "Rectifying the Party's Style of Work": "As we are the Communist Party, and we aim to lead the people to overthrow the enemy, our team should be well-organized, and our pace should be unified. Our army should be exact, and our weapons should be reliable. Without meeting these conditions, we will not manage to overthrow the enemy." This tells us that in order to lead the people in overthrowing the enemy, the party must meet ideological, political, organizational, and style criteria. Mao believed that, at the time, the party's political line was correct, but the issue was that certain aspects of our party style were improper, demonstrating subjectivism, sectarianism, and party clichés. Therefore, to implement the party's political leadership and political line, we need to rectify the party's style of work. Under Mao's guidance, our party overcame the three negative trends within the party through the Yan'an rectification, strengthened the construction of party style, and ensured the fulfillment of the party's political leadership. Based on the great success of the rectification, our party held the seventh National Congress. In the political report titled "On Coalition Government", Mao further discussed the significant impact of promoting the party's excellent style for the implementation of the party's Seventh Route Line. Due to the party-wide adherence and promotion of Mao's advocated three excellent styles, various levels of party committees and the vast number of party members and officials can creatively and unremittingly implement the party's political line based on their local conditions and the realities of their units. They transformed the party's line and the guidelines and policies developed for implementing this line into the practical actions of millions of people. In this way, they strongly ensured the realization of the party's political leadership, ensured the final victory of the Anti-Japanese War, and ensured the great victory of the Liberation War. History has proven that promoting the party's excellent work style and strengthening party style construction indeed guarantee the implementation of the party's political line and the realization of the party's political leadership.
Thirdly, Mao's concept of party style discusses the importance of party style issues in the party's self-building and emphasizes the significant relevance of strengthening party style construction for maintaining the proletariat's Vanguard party nature.
Our party's emphasis on party style construction in party building is due to the close relationship between party style issues, the party's working-class Vanguard nature, and the party's worldview. Any improper party style violates the nature and worldview of the party and is therefore "the enemy of the Communist Party, the enemy of the working class, the enemy of the people, the enemy of the nation, and a manifestation of impure party spirit." While a completely proper party style is a benchmark for loyal practice of Marxism and maintaining the working-class Vanguard nature. Therefore, understanding and solving party style construction from the party's worldview's elevation and giving it due attention to the nature of the party is another trait of our party's self-building.
As early as the Land Revolution War, Mao Zedong and Zhou Enlai recognized the significance of party style issues for the healthy development of the party. During the Yan'an rectification, the party central committee and Mao explicitly made party style construction an inseparable part of the party's self-building, took various effective measures to consciously correct improper party style, promote the party's excellent work style, and strengthen party style building. Mao deeply discussed the importance of maintaining the party's excellent work style, believing that the party's three excellent work styles are the distinct markers separating us Communists from any other party.



This argument tells us that the problem of party style is directly related to the nature of the party. Upholding and promoting the fine style of the party can maintain the vanguard nature of the proletarian party; discarding the fine traditions and style of the party can severely affect the vanguard nature of the proletarian party, if the party style is completely corrupt, it may lead to the transformation of the nature of the party. It's precisely because our party attaches great importance to the significant contribution of party style to maintaining the vanguard nature of the party, so we have been able to consciously strengthen the construction of party style in the practice of party building. This is an important reason why our Party has been able to maintain the vanguard nature of the proletarian party in a country where the majority of people are farmers.

Mao Zedong discussed the issue of party style in relation to maintaining the nature of the party, which is not only of great practical significance in guiding us to consciously strengthen the construction of party style in practice, but also of great theoretical significance in social life for people to judge and identify whether a party is a true proletarian vanguard organization. Marxists believe that any political party has its own manifesto, theory, and style. To judge what kind of party it is, we need to look at its theory and manifestos, as well as its style. Marx and Engels first put forward the scientific argument of judging the nature of a party by its manifesto, emphasizing that the party's manifesto is a banner openly erected, and the outside world judges the party by its political manifesto. Lenin and Stalin, in response to the betrayal of Marxist doctrine by revisionists in the imperialist era, put forward the famous argument of judging the nature of a party by whether it upholds the basic principles of Marxism. They believe that any political party that adheres to the basic principles of Marxism is a new type of proletarian revolutionary party; any political party that betrays the basic principles of Marxism is a revisionist or reformist party. Mao Zedong, based on the social and historical conditions in which the Chinese Communist Party is located, further proposed to take the issue of style as an important indicator to judge the nature of a political party. This enriches and develops the doctrine of the Marxist-Leninist party and is an important contribution to the construction of party style.

Fourthly, it discusses the importance of strengthening the construction of party style in order to maintain the high prestige of the party among the masses, emphasizing that only by rectifying the party style can we improve people's morals and social ethos.

From the basic point of view of historical materialism, Mao Zedong believes that what determines the future destiny of the party is the issue of where people's hearts lie. When people are on the side of the party, the party has strength, vigor, and is invincible; when it loses the hearts of the people, the party is powerless, loses vitality, and fails miserably. So, what factors influence where people's hearts lie? For a political party, the most direct and perceptible thing for the people is the issue of party style. From historical experience, whether the people's hearts are with the party is in large part determined by whether what our party does benefits them, especially whether the words and deeds of the broad party members and cadres seek benefits for them, to decide whether to support and follow the party. For a long time, because we Communists are selfless, put others before ourselves, endure hardship first, enjoy later, advance and retreat, fight bravely, everything for the masses, closely connect with the masses, and even shed blood and sacrifice to protect the interests of the masses, we have won the trust, support, affection, and support of the masses. Historical experience tells us that the issue of party style is actually the issue of what kind of posture and style the party appears in front of the people, which directly relates to whether the party can maintain its high prestige among the masses. That's why Mao Zedong always emphasizes that we should uphold and promote the fine traditions and style of the party, always play the role of a model vanguard: a model of bravery in battle, a model of base construction in the rear, a model of taking on heavy responsibilities in work, a model of hard struggle in life, a model of unity and mutual assistance in comrade relations, and so on.



Mao Zedong believed that the issue of party style not only directly relates to the lofty prestige of the party among the masses, but also directly influences, and even to a certain extent determines, the style of the masses. He pointed out in 1942 the importance of rectifying the party's style, and said that our Communist Party is the leader of the people's revolutionary cause, and the quality of our party's style greatly affects the people of the whole country. "As long as our party's style is completely upright, the people of the whole country will learn from us. Those outside the party who have poor habits, as long as they are good at heart, will learn from us, correct their mistakes, and thus affect the entire nation." Mao Zedong explicitly linked party style with public style, which not only stimulates the enthusiasm of all party comrades to rectify the party's style, but also enhances the sense of political responsibility among all party comrades to reform society. This important idea has guiding significance for us today in rectifying party style, promoting social progress, and strengthening the construction of spiritual civilization.

How to maintain and uphold a good style, after hard exploration, our party has proposed and established effective methods and measures for strengthening the building of party style: First, we must solve the problem of party style from the height of worldview and party spirit. This is the fundamental principle that must be adhered to in strengthening the building of party style.

Our party has always believed that the style of the party is closely related to the worldview of the party. The style of the party is the concrete expression of the worldview of the party in action. Our Communist Party's worldview is dialectical materialism and historical materialism. The worldview of dialectical materialism manifested in the actions of the party is the unity of knowing and doing, seeking truth from facts, linking theory with reality; The worldview of historical materialism manifested in the party's action is belief in the masses, reliance on the masses, and close contact with the masses. With the worldview of dialectical materialism and historical materialism, communists are naturally fearless in all practical activities; They dare to criticize various unhealthy phenomena within the party and society, and dare to self-criticize. Therefore, the three virtues of the party are the specific manifestations of the Marxist worldview in the actions of the party.

Since the style of the party is the manifestation of the party's worldview in action, then to promote the excellent style of the party and overcome bad styles, it is necessary to focus on solving problems from the worldview. During the Rectification Period in Yan'an, Mao Zedong's approach to solving the problem of party style was from the perspective of worldview and outlook on life. Firstly, he wrote works such as "On Practice" and "On Contradiction," criticizing the unhealthy styles of subjectivism and dogmatism from a high point of worldview, and profoundly expounding the dialectical materialist worldview of the party, laying a theoretical foundation for the smooth progress of rectification in Yan'an. Then, the Central Committee of the Party and Mao Zedong guided senior party cadre and all party members, starting from studying Marxist theory and party documents, starting from research and investigation, using the method of criticism and self-criticism, to further solve the worldview problems of party cadre and members. The so-called resolution of the worldview of party cadres and members is mainly to guide party cadres and members to apply basic principles of Marxism, link their thoughts to practical working conditions, and consciously transform their subjective world. There are two basic aspects to the transformation of the subjective world: one is the transformation of thinking and consciousness, the other is the transformation of thinking methods. The former is a matter of raising ideological and political awareness, the latter is a matter of improving cognitive ability. These two improvements are the main questions to be answered in the transformation of the subjective world. Because our party firmly grasped the fundamental issue of transforming world outlook in the Rectification Movement, it effectively overcame the problem of "Three Winds Not Right," ensuring the victory of Yan'an Rectification. The three virtues of the party were put forward based on the great victory of the Rectification. This historical experience tells us that only by addressing the issue of party style from the perspective of worldview can we effectively overcome unhealthy tendencies and firmly establish excellent habits.


In the construction of party style, Mao Zedong particularly valued party education, which is the central link in solving party style problems from a world view. He believed that improper party style is a manifestation of impure party nature. To thoroughly overcome improper behaviors, it is necessary to focus on improving party nature and strengthen the proletarian party nature. During the Yan'an Rectification Period, under the advocacy of Mao Zedong, our party made a special "Decision on Enhancing Party Nature," pointing out various manifestations of impure party nature and proposing various measures to enhance party nature, which played a positive role in promoting the good party style and overcoming various improper behaviors. At the same time, Liu Shaoqi also made a report on "On the Cultivation of Communist Party Members," systematically discussing party cultivation. The so-called party cultivation means that Communist Party members consciously use the excellent characteristics of the proletarian vanguard to conduct self-education and self-transformation and gradually possess these positive qualities. One important characteristic of party cultivation is that it is not mainly relying on external force and compulsion, but the consciousness of party members and self-transformation to raise political awareness. The organization's education is very important, and the effectiveness of this kind of education lies in mobilizing the internal positive factors of the party members and relying on the party members' own positivity to conquer their negative factors. Mao Zedong believed that if a Communist Party member and party cadre has a strong party nature, then he can fully play a leading role model in all work. This pioneering and exemplary role is an explicit representation of the good party style. Therefore, strengthening the party's cultivation is the fundamental measure to promote the good party style and overcome various improper behaviors.

Solving party style problems from a worldview also includes another important link and measure, which is to strengthen research and investigation. Mao Zedong believed: "The promotion of investigation and research throughout the party is the fundamental link to changing the party style. He has a famous saying: "No investigation, no right to speak." This idea is a vivid summary of his long-term practical experience in investigating and researching work. It is also a vibrant demonstration of his application of Marxism's dialectic materialism epistemology in the actual work of the party. This is an important condition for us to correct the party style.

Secondly, good forms of rectification and party style have been created, which is a major measure to correct and strengthen the party style.
In order to more effectively overcome the bad habits within the party, promote the good party style, and improve the quality of the party, our party has also created good forms for party rectification. The so-called party rectification is to comprehensively rectify the party's thoughts, styles, and organizations within a certain period. Specifically, in light of some main tendencies existing throughout the party, we select several classic works, party documents, and other leaders' works and reports, link the actual situation of thoughts, style, organization, and work, carry out criticism and self-criticism to improve the Marxist theoretical level and political consciousness of party members and cadres, overcome deficiencies and mistakes in work, and achieve the purpose of unifying thoughts, correcting style, strengthening discipline, purifying organizations, and improving the party's combat effectiveness.

From the Anti-Japanese War to the establishment of New China, our party has carried out three successful party rectification movements. The first was Yan'an Rectification in 1942.


The most remarkable achievement of this rectification movement, as Mao Zedong stated, was that it enabled our leadership organs and many cadres to further grasp this basic direction: "The unity of Marxism-Leninism's universal truths and China's concrete revolutionary practice." The second was the land reform and party rectification in 1948. This campaign revealed the presence of impure elements and styles within the party to some degree, and overcame the tendency of some cadres in rural grassroots organizations to be estranged from the masses. The third was the party purification and rectification movement in the early years of the founding of New China. This campaign greatly enhanced the political awareness of Communist Party members, purified the party team, strengthened the relationship between the party and the masses, and enhanced the leadership of the party.

From these historical experiences, it is clear that party purification and rectification is indeed an effective form of improving the party's work style. This is because: first, the party purification and rectification is a systematic and mass-based Marxist ideological education movement. Through this form of education, the theoretical level and political awareness of the party will greatly improve, communist ideology will be greatly promoted, and individualistic and other non-proletarian ideologies will be further overcome, providing an ideologically solid foundation for improving the party style. Second, party purification and rectification constitutes a comprehensive reshaping of the party's work style and organization conducted in a directed, planned, and organized manner, effectively achieving "comprehensive governance". In other words, it can effectively correct various forms of corruption and overcome feudalism, sectarianism, anarchism, liberalism, and extreme democratization unorganised and undisciplined phenomena. In particular, the latter stages of party rectification entail organizational review and management, not only disciplining those who have committed serious offenses, but also removing those harmful, anti-party and degenerate elements, thus achieving the goal of purifying the organization. In this way, party purification and rectification provides a reliable organizational guarantee for rectifying the party style. Therefore, party purification and rectification is an effective form of rectifying the party style and a major measure for our party to improve its work style. This form of purification and rectification, which Mao Zedong initiated, marks a great innovation in the history of proletarian party building.

Practice and theory are inextricably linked. The fine tradition of combining theory and practice refers to Communist Party members' basic character and style on the issue of understanding and transforming the objective world. The key to this approach is must understand the theory of Marxism-Leninism. Only when it is combined with the concrete practice of the Chinese Revolution does it truly become the weapon with which the Chinese people have been victorious in hundreds of battles.

The Chinese Communist Party, through a long period of revolutionary struggle, has upheld and developed the scientific principle of combining Marxism-Leninism theory and practice, and elevated it to the level of a fundamental principle of Marxism.

The Chinese Communist Party believes that integrating theory with practice is not only an important ideological principle, but also a significant methodological principle. The main content of this methodological principle can be summarized in three aspects: First, the Marxist worldview is not a doctrine, but a method. It does not provide ready-made dogmas, but points of departure and tools for further research. Second, theory must be combined with practice, which is the scientific path to achieving unity of the subjective and the objective, and the harmony of theory and practice. It is also an objective requirement for the goals of understanding and transforming the world. Third, theory can only be enriched and developed by merging with practice, which is the inner demand for the development of theory.

Firstly, the combination of theory and practice is a methodological principle in correctly handling the dialectical relationship between the two. Theory devoid of practice is empty theory, and practice without theory is blind practice. In the history of our Communist Party, whether it's dogmatism or empiricism, both are characterized by a separation of theory and practice, subjective and objective. Dogmatists fail to understand that Marxism is not a doctrine but a method. They separate the universal principles of Marxism-Leninism from the practical realities of the Chinese revolution, refuse to conduct thorough and detailed studies of the practicalities of the Chinese revolution, and apply Marxism-Leninism as an abstract dogma indiscriminately. As a result, the Chinese revolution fell into crisis, with Wang Ming's "Left" dogmatism being the most severe in the history of the Party. Empiricism, on the other hand, opposes the universal principles of Marxism-Leninism to the concrete realities of the Chinese revolution, denying the guiding role of Marxism-Leninism's universal principles on practice and failing to understand that "without a revolutionary theory there can be no revolutionary movement"; they are satisfied with temporary success and a single insight, falling into the error of empiricism. Both tendencies separate theory from practice, and only by adhering to the method of integrating theory with reality, combining Marxist-Leninist theory with the practice of the Chinese revolution, can the Chinese revolution be guided towards victory.

Secondly, the combination of theory and practice is a methodological principle to realize the unity of subjective and objective, and the consistency of knowledge and reality. The fundamental issue of philosophy is the relationship between thinking and existence. This problem includes two aspects: firstly, the question of whether thinking and existence, spirit and matter, subjective and objective are primary. Secondly, is there a unity of thinking and existence, spirit and matter, subjective and objective? The first aspect concerns who determines who between thinking and existence. The second aspect is how to realize the dialectical unity of opposition, interdependence, and transformation of thinking and existence. The fundamental issue in philosophy, when reflected in reality, presents as the relationship between theory and practice. Theory comes from practice, and in turn provides guidance for practice. The unity of theory and practice epitomizes the problem of unity between thinking and existence, subjective and objective. Only by adhering to the method of integrating theory with practice can we achieve unity between subjective and objective, and consistency between knowledge and reality. At the same time, the method of combining theory and practice also embodies the highest principle of Marxist philosophy. The purpose of understanding the world is to transform it, and combining theory and practice is the scientific way to achieve this goal, organically unifying the understanding and transformation of the world.

Lastly, the combination of theory and practice is a methodological principle for the development of theory. Theory comes from practice, and is tested and developed in practice. The detachment of theory from reality is the most fundamental epistemological root cause of the ossification of theory and the failure of practice. Objective things are constantly moving, changing, and developing, and people's understanding should also develop with the specific process of development of objective things. Generally speaking, theory as a form of subjective understanding has relative stability, while objective things are constantly changing and developing, which forms a dialectical process of contradiction between subjective and objective, theory and practice. The task of people's cognition is to seek the concrete historical unity between them.



When the actual process of objective practice has moved forward, subjective understanding should also change accordingly. If the understanding still remains at the original stage, the error of theory lagging behind reality will occur. When the specific process of objective practice has not yet ended, to forcibly do what can only be done in the future, right now, is also an error of subjective-objective split. The method of linking theory with practice is precisely the dialectical method of achieving unity between subjective and objective, theory and practice.

In the practice of our party during the democratic revolution, the combination of theory and practice is emphasized on the following three aspects: Firstly, one must be proficient in Marxist theory, and apply Marxist theory to analyze and explain China's actual problems. Marxist theory is a scientific summary of the practical experience of the proletarian revolutionary struggle. It reflects the general situation and universal laws of the proletarian revolution, and it has universal guiding significance for the proletarian revolution in all countries. However, to use Marxist theory to guide the proletarian revolution in various countries, one must first use the Marxist theory to analyze and explain the specific reality of each country, and combine the Marxist theory with the specific reality of each country.

In the Chinese revolution, the dogmatists did not understand this point. Mao Zedong criticized their mistakes, pointed out their practices, and violated the basic principle of Marx, Engels, Lenin, and Stalin's repeated admonitions to people: the unity of theory and practice. He urged a purposeful study of Marxism-Leninism, as a means to solve the theoretical and strategic issues of the Chinese revolution, to look for position, viewpoints, and methods from Marx, Engels, Lenin, and Stalin. And should apply the positions, viewpoints, and methods of Marxism-Leninism to study China's current situation, to study China's history, to be able to "correctly explain the actual issues that have occurred in history and revolution based on the positions, viewpoints, and methods of Marxism-Leninism, and to scientifically explain and theoretically elaborate China's economic, political, military, and cultural issues. This kind of attitude is a scientific attitude of seeking truth from facts, "It is a manifestation of party spirit, and it is a style of Marxism-Leninism that unifies theory and practice", it is "an attitude that every Communist Party member should have." It can be seen that, here, Mao Zedong regards the use of Marxist theory to analyze and explain China's actual situation as an important content of linking theory with practice.

Secondly, one must base on the actual situation, and combine Marxist theory with the practice of the Chinese revolution. The Marxist theory is a powerful ideological weapon for the proletariat to understand the world and transform the world. Adhering to the principle of linking theory with practice is to give full play to the great role of Marxist theory in understanding and transforming the world. 

In the practice of the Chinese revolution, Mao Zedong attached great importance to the combination of theory and practice, and regarded this combination as an important content of linking theory with practice. In "On Practice," he quoted Stalin's words: "If theory is not linked with practice, it will become a theory without an object. Similarly, if practice is not guided by revolutionary theory, it will become blind practice." To draw the Party's attention to the integration of theory and practice, he understood this combination at the level of Party principles, and believed that: "Without a scientific attitude, that is, without a Marxist-Leninist attitude of unity of theory and practice, it is called lack of party spirit, or incomplete party spirit."



"How to integrate Marxism theory with Chinese revolutionary practice? On the one hand, Mao Zedong sinicized, popularized and massified Marxism theory, integrating it with the practical activities of the Chinese proletariat and the vast population. He pointed out: "Communist Party members are international Marxists, but Marxism must be combined with our country's specific characteristics and realized through certain national forms." Therefore, he required Marxism to be concretized in China, implying that it must bear Chinese characteristics, style, and temperament in every manifestation, thereby being mastered and utilized by the vast majority of Chinese people. On the other hand, Mao Zedong concretized Marxist theory into the party's thinking method, working method, and leadership method, combining Marxist theory with the revolutionary practice of the Chinese Communist Party. The Chinese Communist Party is the core of China's revolutionary cause and the organizer and leader of China's revolutionary cause. Combining Marxist theory with Chinese revolutionary practice is also combining it with their practice. In the long-term revolutionary practice, Mao Zedong established a complete set of scientific thinking methods, working methods, and leadership methods. These methods are not only the concretization of Marxist theory but also the fundamental principles and methods that our Party must follow in all of its work. He proposed the "divide into two," which is both a popularized and massified expression of Marxist dialectics and a basic method that is effective in all Party work. His leadership and work method of "from the masses, to the masses" is both the line and method that our Party must follow in all its work and the concretization of Marxist epistemology and historical materialism. In this way, he transformed Marxist theory into the guide to action for our Party and organically combined Marxist theory with Chinese revolutionary practice.

Third, the development of theory as the highest goal, sum up new theories from the practice of the Chinese revolution, and enrich and develop Marxism. 

Marxist theory is a scientific truth that comes from the practice of proletarian revolutionary struggle and is proven by the practice of proletarian revolutionary struggle. Like any truth, it does not end the truth but opens the way to truth. With changes in objective reality and the development of practice, Marxist theory must also be constantly enriched and developed. Otherwise, Marxist theory will not be able to adequately explain and describe objective reality, will not be able to effectively guide practice, and will inevitably lead to a separation of theory and reality. On this basis, the Chinese Communist Party attaches great importance to the enrichment and development of Marxist theory in the revolutionary practice and regards the enrichment and development of Marxist theory as an important content of integrating theory with practice. In the Chinese revolution, Mao Zedong regarded the enrichment and development of Marxist theory as important content in integrating theory with practicality, and specifically pointed out that "Chinese Communists only when they are good at applying Lenin's Stalin to the Chinese revolution, further serious study of Chinese historical reality and revolutionary reality, make theoretical creations that meet China's actual needs in all aspects, are called theoretical contact with reality." Mao Zedong further pointed out later: Marx, Engels, Lenin's books, must read, this is the first. But the communists of any country, the proletarian thinkers of any country, must create new theories, write new works, and produce their own theorists to serve current politics. Any country, at any time, relying on old things is not enough.

The content of the three aspects of the theory of practice in the thought of the Chinese Communist Party is interrelated and emphasized. From a connection perspective, the three aspects of the content in the theory of practice are an organically indivisible whole. The use of Marxist theory to analyze and explain China's actual problems are the basis or premise of the theory of practice."



To apply Marxist theory to the concrete reality of China, we must first use Marxist theory to analyze and explain the actual problems in China, so that Marxist theory aligns with the specific reality of China. Without analysis and explanation of China's specific reality, it would be impossible to link Marxist theory with the practice of China's revolution and construction, and the enrichment and development of Marxist theory would be out of the question. Combining Marxist theory with the practice of the Chinese revolution is the fundamental approach to connecting theory with reality. Without this combination, the analysis and explanation of actual problems would lose their significance, and Marxist theory would not be able to serve as a powerful force for transforming the world and changing reality. It would inevitably result in a separation between theory and practice, and the enrichment and development of Marxist theory would be nothing more than empty words. The process of summarizing new theories from the practice of the Chinese revolution and enriching and developing Marxism is an inevitable requirement in relation to actualities. Objective reality is rich and colorful, and constantly changing and evolving, as is the practice of revolution. As theory is a reflection of objective reality and a generalization of practical experience, it must also change according to changes in objective reality and develop along with the progress of practice. Otherwise, theory will fall behind reality. 

Viewed from differences, the three areas of content in the thought of linking theory to practice each have their own emphases, forming three levels from low to high. Using Marxist theory to analyze and explain China's actuality focuses on understanding and recognizing China's social, political, economic, military, and cultural realities. It only resolves the issue of how to correctly perceive and reflect objective reality. This connection between theory and practice is a lower-level connection. Combining Marxist theory with the practice of China's revolution and construction focuses on using Marxist theory to transform and change objective reality. It resolves how Marxist theory transforms the world and changes reality. As it delves into the transformation and change of objective reality and doesn't merely stay at reflecting objective reality, this connection between theory and practice is a higher-level connection than simply using Marxist theory to analyze and explain China's reality. 

Summarizing new theories from the practice of the Chinese revolution and enriching and developing Marxism, on the other hand, emphasizes the generalization and summary of practical experiences and theoretical creation. It resolves how Marxist theory reflects the changing and developing objective reality, and guides the constantly developing practice. As it not only reflects objective reality and guides practice, but also further enriches theory, this connection between theory and practice is a high-level connection. If we deny their differences and mix the content of the three levels, or replace high-level connections with low-level ones, it will inevitably lead to a separation between theory and practice and unconsciously violate the principle of linking theory to practice.

Third, Style of Criticism and Self-Criticism

Upholding the style of criticism and self-criticism refers to the character and style communists should possess on the issue of correctly understanding and transforming the subjective world. The basic point of this style is that transforming the old society and establishing a new society is a difficult and novel undertaking. In the long process of revolution, it is inevitable to make some, even serious, mistakes; to adhere to the truth, and rectify errors is the only way for a revolutionary party and a communist to mature and achieve victory. Criticism and self-criticism are the internal forces for the party to correct errors and move forward constantly. Criticism and self-criticism are inherent requirements for the survival and development of the Communist Party. 

The revolutionary mentors



Without criticism, there is no mutual understanding, and thus there is no unity. He also emphasized that a proletarian party must have the courage to criticize and self-criticize, and whether having this courage or not indicates whether the party has a strong vitality; it means whether the party can withstand various tests. He proudly said, "Where else is there another party that dare to do this?"
Lenin, in the process of founding and leading the proletarian revolutionary party, attached great importance to the cultivation of a self-critical style. He stated that self-criticism is absolutely necessary for any vibrant and energetic party. He believed that the attitude a party holds towards its own mistakes is the most important and reliable measure of whether the party is serious and truly fulfills its obligations to its class and the working masses. Openly admitting mistakes, revealing the causes of mistakes, analyzing the environment in which mistakes occur, and carefully discussing the methods of correcting errors are the signs of a serious party. It is the duty of the party, and it is the education and training of the class, and even the masses.
The reason why the proletariat party is different from other parties is fundamentally because it is a selfless party, its purpose is to wholeheartedly serve the people, and this provides the possibility for the development of criticism and self-criticism. Criticism and self-criticism are the valuable traditions and political advantages of our party.
The Communist Party of China, led by Marxism and established in accordance with Lenin's party building principles, has inherited the fine tradition of criticism and self-criticism in the international socialist movement and creatively developed it in leading the Chinese revolution, forming a good style of criticism and self-criticism with its own characteristics.
In our party, the first-generation central leadership led by Mao Zedong first created a new method of rectifying the party through criticism and self-criticism. Starting from the Yan'an rectification period, Mao Zedong often used metaphors like "washing face every day", "sweeping the floor every day", "flowing water does not rot", and "the household hinge does not rust", to vividly and profoundly explain the necessity of self-criticism among communists. He pointed out that in the party, there are always contradictions between the advanced and the backward, the right and the wrong. The progress of the party is based on the continuous unfolding and resolution of these contradictions, and criticism and self-criticism are the main methods to solve contradictions within the party. Mao Zedong said, "The members of the Communist Party of China who start from the maximum interests of the broadest Chinese people and believe that their cause is completely justified, are willing to sacrifice everything, are always ready to give their lives for our cause. Is there anything that does not meet the needs of the people, views, opinions, methods that they do not want to throw away? Do we still welcome any political dust, political microbes to tarnish our clean face and erode our healthy body? Countless revolutionary martyrs sacrificed their lives for the interests of the people, and everyone who thinks of them feels sad. Do we have any personal interests that cannot be sacrificed, and any mistakes that cannot be abandoned?" It is this thorough materialist attitude that has helped the Chinese Communist Party form and develop a set of effective guidelines and methods for conducting criticism and self-criticism. They are the precious spiritual wealth of our party, and they have effectively ensured the complete victory of the new democratic revolution from an organizational point of view. Whether there is serious criticism and self-criticism is an important symbol to test the party nature of party members. First of all, self-criticism is the basis for carrying out party criticism: our party is the vanguard of the Chinese working class and a faithful representative of the interests of the people of all ethnic groups in China. This determines that all its speeches and actions must be highly responsible to the masses, does not allow any special interests of its own to exist, and does not allow any shortcomings and mistakes that harm the interests of the people to exist. Therefore, our party solemnly declares to the masses: persist in what is good for the people's interests and correct what is wrong for the people's interests. This is also the standpoint and starting point of our party's self-criticism.



It is precisely because self-criticism is based on the interests of the people that its smooth progress is the foundation for the healthy development of intra-party criticism. 
Through self-criticism, we can strengthen the cultivation of party members and create good ethical conditions for intra-party criticism.
The consciousness of self-criticism is built on the basis of correct self-evaluation. To make a correct evaluation of oneself, one cannot do without one's own moral cultivation and the cultivation of moral judgment standards. The so-called moral judgment, colloquially speaking, refers to a person judging the right and wrong of others' actions and measures based on their political views and moral views. This is a kind of rational and emotional power from the heart, and is a value concept formed by people's social status, education level, and experience in transforming objective world practice. The closer this value concept is to the scientific worldview, the better it can blend with the interests and emotions of the vast number of people, and the more accurately it can distinguish between good and evil, right and wrong. Thus, it can more consciously adhere to correct behavior, correct erroneous behavior, and generate internal requirements for self-criticism. A person's moral cultivation is the spiritual force that drives self-criticism, noble moral power, encouraging people to take a non-conservative and proactive improvement attitude towards their own shortcomings and mistakes; and this proactive attitude will make one's spiritual realm broader and moral cultivation more perfect. A person with ideal goals and moral pursuits, in order to fulfill his responsibilities for the people's interests, does not allow indulgence in self, stagnation, the consciousness and initiative of self-criticism will be greatly enhanced.
Through self-criticism, we can promote the spirit of democracy within the party and create a good practical foundation for intra-party criticism.
It is easy to listen to good words, but it is difficult to listen to different opinions; it is easy to criticize others, but it is difficult to actively self-criticize, which is a common problem among party members and party cadres. There are various reasons for this problem, but fundamentally, the indifference to the spirit of democracy is an important aspect. Unquestionably, treating each other equally is an important principle for party comrades to handle their relationships. In our party, although there is a subordinate relationship between superior and subordinate in work, they are equal in observing the principle of democratic centralism of the party and party discipline and law. However, some comrades, especially some leading cadres, are indifferent to democratic concepts, consider themselves as patriarchs, have a rough style, often teach and criticize others, they cannot be pragmatic when criticizing others, and they cannot be fair and just when dealing with problems. The lack of an active and proactive style of self-criticism is an important reason for the weakness of democratic consciousness. The practice of party construction tells us that in order to create a lively and relaxed environment for party development, we must open the door to the spirit of democracy, be able to listen to various opinions with an open mind. If you are wrong, do not insist on your own opinions. If others are right, follow the good. Only in this way can we correctly link the party with the people, truly form an upward spiritual outlook within the party, and promote the vigorous development of the revolutionary cause.
Through self-criticism, we can promote unity within the party and create a good organizational atmosphere for intra-party criticism.



To solve problems proactively and preemptively, we need to actively engage in self-criticism, enhance sincere communication and heart-to-heart talks, and do a good job in resolving conflicts, unifying thoughts and uniting comrades. We should always adhere to the principle of people-oriented, respecting, understanding, and caring for people. We need to put ourselves in others' shoes, treat others equally, emotionally appeal to people, and persuade others with reason, while avoiding simple, crude, and forcibly commanding actions. By innovating in content, form, and methods, it addresses the hot and difficult issues existing in the thoughts of Party members, deeply exchanges opinions and views, and does a good job in clarifying doubts, uniting people's hearts, guiding emotions, and resolving conflicts. In short, we must fully understand the difficulty and complexity of the development of the Party's construction under the new situation and use the high-quality results of self-criticism to create a good atmosphere for unity and development. 

Secondly, the criticism is the political responsibility of Communist Party members: Comrades with Party life experience all have a feeling that it is easy to talk about criticism, but it is difficult to carry it out. The carrying out of criticism always unavoidably reveals contradictions and touches on the sore points. Therefore, the situation of "planting more flowers and fewer thorns" in Party life is widespread. However, the party principle tells us that this attitude towards criticism is incorrect and is non-Marxist.

Everything in the world is full of contradictions, and all things advance and develop in their own contradictions. The same is true for our party. If there are no contradictions in the party and ideological struggles to resolve contradictions, the life of the party will cease. Engels said early on that it seems any working-class party in a big country can only develop in internal struggles, which conforms to the general law of dialectical development. Recognizing contradictions, facing contradictions, and correctly handling and resolving contradictions are essential ways to transform the subjective world with Marxism while transforming the objective world. In other words, the so-called attitude of "planting more flowers and fewer thorns" is the abandonment of extreme ideological struggles and the advocacy of giving up the principle of "peace of mind". It is a party-like attitude to replace the maintenance of party and people's interests with the attitude of "not offending anyone"; it advocates not criticising, resisting, not resisting, trivialize big issues, and trivial issues. These are all manifestations of losing party spirit. In party life, actively carrying out criticism activities and opposing the principleless peace of cancelling ideological struggles, should be the political responsibility of each party member.

Practice has proven that the political responsibility of carrying out intra-party criticism is specifically manifested as: it is the process of party members renewing efforts to adapt to the party's building and development needs; it is the process of each party member correctly treating comrades and themselves; it is the process of party members accepting Communist thoughts training and education.

Finally, to carry out intra-party criticism, we should follow the correct principles and methods: "To do a good job, tools are necessary." This "tool" refers not only to tools but also to methods. We have a good style and weapon of criticism and self-criticism, and we should not only dare to use it, but also be good at using it. Otherwise, it will not only be ineffective, but it may even backfire. Only by having weapons and correct principles and methods to use weapons can we achieve the expected purpose of criticism and self-criticism.


Firstly, we must carefully summarize the experience and lessons learned from carrying out intra-party criticism.
Our party is armed with advanced theories and organized according to the principles of democratic centralism, which is a Marxist party. Therefore, for a long time, we have paid great attention to using the weapon of criticism and self-criticism to strengthen the construction of the party's advancement. The practice of the party's successful leadership in the Chinese revolution fully proves that our party is good at self-criticism, self-improvement, and self-improvement. It is a party that can discover and solve the contradictions within the party and correct its own mistakes and problems by relying on its own strength. In this historical process, we have accumulated a wealth of experience. They mainly show as the following points: Starting from the overall situation of the cause, adopting a kind attitude towards people, we avoid blindly labeling, arbitrarily criticizing, and irrelevant nitpicking. We do not unnecessarily escalate issues, and we form a good atmosphere where everything is spoken out, all words are exhausted, there's no blame in speech, and the listener takes a precaution.
②We need to have correct methods. In intra-party criticism, we should be "gentle as drizzling", calm, and absolutely avoid the erroneous practices of "leftist" dogmatists who adopt "cruel struggle and ruthless strike".
③We need to have correct standards of right and wrong. The party constitution and the party's basic line and policies should be used as the standards of right and wrong. Criticism should focus on political and principal issues, and we cannot cause principle-less disputes or get entangled in trivial matters. 
④When carrying out criticism and self-criticism, we must also adopt an attitude of seeking truth from facts. We should emphasize evidence in our speech, avoid making unwarranted assumptions, exaggerations, and unnecessary escalations. We should persuade people with reason instead of force. We should not just focus on one point and ignore others. Moreover, we cannot make up and frame others under the guise of criticism.
Secondly, both towards others and ourselves, we must adhere to the principle of seeking truth from facts.
Seeking truth from facts is our party's fundamental line and fundamental style. It is also the party's basic leadership method and working method. When criticizing and self-criticizing, we must pay attention to implementing the principle of seeking truth from facts. We must rely on facts, present the facts, reason logically, and we must not unnecessarily escalate matters, and certainly, never fabricate things out of nothing.



To make the facts clear, what exists, exists, what doesn't, doesn't. We absolutely cannot rely on subjective imagination, wild conjecture, or hearsay. We must firmly resist such egregious behaviors as framing others, slander, and fabrication of facts. Always remember: "When speaking, one must have a basis, and when making criticism, one must consider the political implications." Ill-founded criticism only fosters mutual suspicion and vigilance and leads to principle-less disputes within the party.

It is imperative to distinguish the nature and extent of mistakes made. One should neither exaggerate nor diminish them, and should not treat occasional errors as consistent ones. Do not portray partial issues as systemic, or academic and perception issues as political problems. Never overgeneralize or confuse the nature of contradictions. Treat both oneself and others historically and dialectically to fully evaluate and view them. Do not erase merits because of mistakes made nor cover mistakes due to merits gained. Be aware not only of strengths and advantages but also of weaknesses and shortcomings, so as to accept criticism. When assessing others, not only consider their shortcomings and flaws, but also their strengths and advantages. This will allow us to evaluate a person objectively and dialectically and not deny his correct propositions when criticizing a comrade.

We must allow those being criticized to retain their views or to explain, argue, and counter-criticize. If the critic realizes that the criticism was wrong, it must be corrected quickly, and never persist mistakenly just for the sake of it, which will cause unnecessary harm to comrades. Only with a serious attitude toward oneself, others, and the party's cause, and a firm adherence to the principle of seeking truth from facts, can a good environment for criticism and self-criticism be created and truly fulfill the original intention of using this sharp ideological weapon.

Thirdly, starting from a desire to care for and help comrades, we should both clarify ideas and unite wills. 

When we undertake criticism and self-criticism, we must always bear in mind the purpose of using this weapon. We carry out criticism and self-criticism not to knock down or alienate others, but to help comrades overcome their shortcomings, progress jointly, and achieve party unity and cohesion at higher standards. On this, Mao Zedong propounded insightful theories. He pointed out: "In 1942, we formulated a concrete formula for solving internal contradictions among the people in such a democratic manner—'unity-criticism-unity.' To be more specific, we start from a desire for unity, resolve contradictions through criticism or struggle, and then achieve new unity on a new basis." He believed, "Here, the prerequisite is to start from a desire for unity. If there is no such desire subjectively, any fight will inevitably lead to chaos, which can't be handled, wouldn't that be 'cruel struggle, merciless blow'? What's left for the unity of the party? Based on this experience, we have found a formula: unity-criticism-unity, or punish before, comfort after; cure diseases, save people."



Therefore, when we conduct internal criticism within the party, we must start from the desire for unity, and from the desire to care for and help our comrades. Otherwise, it violates the essence and requirements of carrying out criticism and self-criticism, which will inevitably lead to results that contradict our original intentions. 
Fourth, we must inspire party members to promote the internal motivation for criticism and self-criticism. 
Party members are the cells of the party's body and the main actors of the party's activities. Whether they can truly inspire the internal motivation of the majority of party members is fundamentally related to whether they can actively and correctly carry out criticism and self-criticism. Therefore, our party emphasizes: 
Party members must be made truly aware of the necessity and importance of criticism and self-criticism. Criticism and self-criticism are sharp ideological weapons for strengthening the party's advanced nature construction, and they are the good traditions and styles that our party has constantly glorified and maintained for a long time. They are the important magic weapons to enhance the party's vitality and vitality, and they are also the distinctive signs of our party, which distinguish us from any other political party. Only when the majority of party members realize this can they greatly improve their initiative to carry out criticism and self-criticism. Party members must truly establish correct principles of right and wrong, and consciously use these principles to measure their own thoughts and actions. The majority of party members and cadres should earnestly study Marxist theory and consciously arm their minds with scientific theory. On this basis, we should strictly compare with the party member standards stipulated in the Party Constitution, seriously self-examine, find out the gaps and outstanding problems, carry out introspective analysis and reflection from the depth of our thoughts, make sure to speak the truth without face, speak principles without relationships, speak party nature without personal feelings, and to eliminate mistakes in the bud state in time, accumulate experience of distinguishing right from wrong, improve their ideological level and work ability, effectively play the exemplary leading role of party members, further improve the party's work style, and elevate the party's work style construction to a new level. 
We should learn to absorb political nutrition from criticism. For us Communists, criticism is like air, water, and sunlight, an indispensable element in life, and a magic weapon for preserving political youth. It is inevitable for a person to have shortcomings and mistakes in their daily work due to the inconsistency of subjective and objective conditions, and the ability of self-knowledge is limited. Regardless of how strict their self-dissection is, it is not easy to see their own shortcomings and insufficiencies. Therefore, the vast majority of party members and leading cadres can only make progress by sincerely accepting others' criticism and constantly absorbing nourishment from it.
We need to enhance the subject consciousness of party members. Party members are the main body of all activities within the party. The formulation and implementation of the party's line, principles, and policies depend on the active participation of the majority of party members; the good image of the party depends on the efforts of the majority of party members and grassroots party organizations to establish and maintain. Therefore, the majority of party members must enhance their sense of honor and responsibility as a Communist Party member, consciously use the sharp ideological weapon of criticism and self-criticism in their daily life and work, actively carry out ideological struggle, clean up the dust in their thoughts, adhere to the good, and correct the wrong.



Fifthly, we should actively make use of the form of heart-to-heart talks. Heart-to-heart talks have always been an effective method in the ideological and political work of the Chinese Communist Party, especially an effective carrier for criticism and self-criticism. Experience has shown that when carrying out criticism and self-criticism, it often has effects that other methods do not. In heart-to-heart talks, everyone identifies problems, meets with sincerity, communicates with each other, and improves together. This has played an important role in promoting the Party's cadres to closely connect with the masses, to harmonize the relationship between the Party and the masses, and to unify the thinking and strengthen the unity of the broad masses of cadres and the masses.

Four, The Style of Closely Linking with the Masses

The style of closely linking with the masses refers to the basic qualities and style that communists should have in dealing with the people. In the long-term revolutionary struggles, our Party has formed a deep connection with the people. This connection has undergone tests in various complex and dire situations and has become the source of strength and effective weapon for our Party's revolutionary and construction work. The Marxist mass historical outlook is the theoretical foundation of our Party's close relationship with the masses. Marx said, only when the theory is thorough, can it persuade the masses. Therefore, the primary issue for the close relationship between the Party and the masses is the correctness of the Party's theory. The Marxist mass historical outlook is the theoretical foundation of our Party's close relationship with the masses. Is it the people or the hero who creates history? This is a fundamental divergence between historical materialism and historical idealism. Before the advent of Marxism, almost all historians and philosophers advocated the heroic historical view, believing that history was created by some great figures or a few elites. This is because they do not fully understand the fundamental principle that social existence determines social consciousness. Therefore, they inevitably cannot have a correct understanding or make a correct evaluation of the decisive role of the masses in history. They all excessively exaggerate the roles of a few outstanding figures, heroes, emperors, and generals in history, considering them as the masters of history, while the masses are tools to be manipulated. The advent of Marxism scientifically answers the basic question of historical outlook from the height of philosophy for the first time. It is not that people's social consciousness determines people's social existence, but people's social existence determines social consciousness. And the so-called social existence, fundamentally, is the mode of material production. The mode of material production is the determining force of social development. In the mode of production, the productive forces are the most active and revolutionary factors. Therefore, the history of human society, first and foremost, is the history of material production, and thus also the history of the main body of material production - the masses. All material and spiritual civilization in human society ultimately comes from the creation of the masses. The people are the decisive force driving the development of history and the true masters of history. Of course, Marxism also acknowledges the significant role that individuals, especially outstanding ones, play in history. It believes that if there were no outstanding thinkers, politicians, and military strategists to enlighten the masses, organize their strength, point out the way forward, and guide the revolutionary struggle from the forefront, it would be impossible for the people to achieve victory. But it also emphasizes that an individual can only belong to the collective as an ordinary person.



On the basis of contradictions within the mode of production caused by the development of productive forces and various factors and objective conditions such as politics and economy, great figures can make a difference. The principle of Marxism that the masses are the creators of history scientifically solves the relationship between the law of social historical development and the practical activities of the masses, highly summarizing the decisive role of the masses in social historical development. It lays a solid theoretical foundation for the proletariat party to establish a mass perspective and formulate the correct line of party building. Starting from this principle of historical materialism, the revolutionary mentors of the proletariat, in their struggle to establish the workers' party - the Communist Party, always regarded the party's close connection with the masses as a basic principle of party building. They emphasized that the party established by the working class itself must be a party that never leaves the masses, a party that represents the fundamental interests of the masses, a party that seeks the interests of the majority. Marx and Engels clearly pointed out in the "Communist Manifesto": "Communists have no interests different from those of the entire proletariat."

Lenin, in leading the creation of the world's first proletarian dictatorship, further developed the Marxist mass historical view of party building, proposing that we need a new type of party, a party of a different nature. The party we need should be a party that is truly connected with the masses and good at leading the masses. At the same time, Lenin believed that the power of the masses is the source of victory. To achieve revolutionary victory, the party must not only win the sympathy and support of the vast majority of workers, but also organize and lead the masses. Organizing tens of millions of working masses is not only the most favorable condition for revolution but also the deepest source of revolutionary victory. It was by following Lenin's teachings that the Bolshevik Party of the Soviet Union made great efforts to organize and mobilize the masses, leading them to a great victory in the October Revolution. After the victory of the October Revolution, the status of the party changed fundamentally, and the masses became the masters of the country. Lenin believed that during the entire period of socialist construction, the working masses are the basis of all state life and the fundamental guarantee of the Soviet Republic. The vigorous creativity of the masses is a basic factor of the new society. Only when the masses participate in state construction can socialism be built. Therefore, for the ruling party, it should have extensive contacts with the masses, trust the masses, and rely on the masses to consolidate its power and carry out socialist construction. Lenin also pointed out that one of the biggest and most serious dangers for the vanguard of the working class is to detach from the masses and generate bureaucracy. In order to prevent this phenomenon, party building must be strengthened, mistakes in the work must be overcome, and the party must always maintain close contact with the masses. Lenin made many efforts in practice, not only emphasizing respect for the historical status of the masses as masters but also selecting outstanding workers and laborers to participate in state management and requiring party members and non-party members to supervise each other. It was precisely because of Lenin's and the Bolsheviks' efforts that the close connection between the party and the masses was ensured, enabling the young Soviet government to be consolidated and achieve rapid development of socialist construction in a short period of time. Close contact with the masses is our party's political advantage. The Communist Party of China was established under the guidance of the basic theory of Marxism-Leninism, educated and armed with Mao Zedong Thought, and also developed and matured in close contact with the masses and joint struggle. With Mao Zedong as the representative, the Chinese Communists, in leading the long-term practice of the Chinese revolution and construction, not only cultivated the fine traditions and style unique to the Chinese Communist Party, but also creatively proposed a mass line with Chinese Communist characteristics. That is, everything is for the masses, everything relies on the masses, and everything comes from the masses and goes to the masses.



The theory of the mass line of the Communist Party of China was formed as early as the period of the Land Revolution War. In September 1929, the "Directive Letter from the Central Committee to the Preparatory Committee of the Fourth Red Army" detailed the relationship between the Red Army and the masses, emphasizing that "the work of the party and the Red Army in the masses must go through the mass line". This was the first time in the history of the Chinese Communist Party that the concept of "mass line" was used. In 1933, Mao Zedong discussed repetitively in "Preliminary Summary of the Investigation Movement" and a few articles about economic work, the importance of caring about the interests and improving the lives of the masses. He pointed out that party and Soviet workers must integrate with the masses and delve deeply into them. Only through patient and strenuous work of mobilizing and winning over the masses can the support of the majority of the people be won. During the Anti-Japanese War, our party made a systematic Marxist summary of historical experiences from a theoretical point of view, and the experience of the mass line formed a complete theoretical form. In 1942, Mao Zedong's "Several Questions on Leadership Method" analyzed the whole process and various links of the correct leadership method, such as "from the masses to the masses", "centralized", and "stick to it". During this period, many mass viewpoints were also proposed, such as the viewpoint that the masses are real heroes; that advocating for the interests of the masses is the starting point and destination of Communist Party members revolution; that the opinions and experiences of the masses are the basis for the party to formulate policies; that being responsible to the party and being responsible to the people are consistent viewpoints; the view of learning from the people; the view of serving the people wholeheartedly; and so on. In 1945, the party's Seventh Congress incorporated the basic spirit of the mass line into the party constitution. In the report of amending the party constitution, Liu Shaoqi pointed out that the mass line of the party is "the fundamental political line of our party and also the fundamental organizational line of our party", and clarified the four items contained in the mass viewpoint: everything for the people, everything is responsible to the people, believe that the masses can liberate themselves, and learn from the people.
Whoever wins the hearts of the people will win the world. During the period of the democratic revolution, our party established a close relationship with the people through this mass line, making our strength grow from small to large, from weak to strong, overcoming heavy oppression from domestic and foreign rulers, overthrowing the three mountains, achieving a complete victory in the New Democratic Revolution, and seizing national power. The key to the style of work that is closely connected with the masses lies in the party itself.
In the contradiction between the party and the masses, who is the main aspect of the contradiction? Our party pointed out that the key to strengthening the relationship between the party and the masses lies within the party, in the purity of the party's organization, and in the work of the party. Our party is the leader of the revolution and the embodiment of the people's interests. As long as our party's line, principles, and policies reflect the fundamental interests and requirements of the people, the people will support the leadership of the party and follow the party. On the contrary, if the party's line, principles, and policies are incorrect, and the party's work goes against the interests and requirements of the masses, the people will alienate themselves from the party and form a barrier with the party. It can be seen that in the contradiction between the party and the masses, the party is the main aspect of the contradiction. Starting from improving the party's organization and the party's work, our party has put forward several principles and methods for strengthening the relationship between the party and the masses, enriched the content of the party's fine style of maintaining close contact with the masses, and played a huge role in guiding the construction of the party.
Recognizing the historical status and role of the people from the perspective of the proletarian worldview and then rectifying the relationship between the party and the masses.
"People, only people, are the driving force of creating world history." This is Mao Zedong's incisive elaboration of the basic viewpoint of historical materialism. Zhu De also said: "Only the masses are the heroes who create history.



"It is based on this fundamental viewpoint of historical materialism that the party's mass line and basic mass viewpoint have been formed. These views are: ①All for the sake of the people, wholeheartedly serving the people; ②All responsible to the people, consistent with being responsible to its own leadership organs; ③ The belief in liberating oneself and learning from the people.
Only through such scientific understanding of the position and role of the people in history, and establishing these basic mass viewpoints, can we correctly relate the following: ① The relationship between the party and the masses, i.e., the working class party does not treat the masses as its tool but consciously recognizes itself as the organization of the masses for accomplishing specific historical tasks at a specific historical period. Recognizing this concept about the party means acknowledging the party has no rights over and above the people, and admitting that the party does not have the power to bestow, take responsibility for, or enforce orders on the people. ②The relationship between the individual and the masses, i.e., no one can exist without the masses and nothing can be achieved otherwise; all Communists, no matter how high their positions are, are servants of the people. ③ The relationship between outstanding individuals and the masses, i.e., outstanding individuals can only represent the fundamental interests of the masses, originate from the struggle of the masses, lead the masses, and create history together with the masses. There can never be one who can take over the world by abandoning the masses.
We must keep in mind the party's fundamental purpose and overall tasks are to serve the people wholeheartedly. Mao Zedong reiterated that the Communist Party of China "takes the greatest interests of the broadest people as the starting point", and "all words and actions of the Communists must be in line with the greatest interests of the broadest people, and be endorsed by the majority of the people as the highest standard". Communists "should always think about the people and plan for them, putting the interests of the masses in the first place". They should "serve the people wholeheartedly, never leave the masses; always proceed from the interests of the people, not from the interests of an individual or small group". There are distinctions between partial interests and overall interests, and short-term and long-term interests for the people. The Communists must never look only at the partial interests of the masses and ignore their overall interests; focus only on the immediate interests of the masses, ignoring their long-term interests. Instead, they should be good at uniting them, making partial interests subordinate to overall interests, and immediate interests to long-term interests when contradictions arise. If the party "cannot represent the greatest interests of the broadest people at all times and in all situations, cannot timely propose correct tasks, policies, and work style, cannot stick to the truth, and cannot correct mistakes in a timely manner when mistakes are made, it will deviate from the people". The Communist Party "can become the vanguard and lead the people just because, and only because, it is the wholehearted servant of the people, it reflects the interests and will of the people, and it strives to help the people organize and fight for their own interests and will".
How to truly serve the people wholeheartedly? Our party has summed up a series of discussions in long-term practice.
(1) We must properly address policies and style of work.
The interests of the masses are always reflected through the policies of the party. In order to formulate correct policies and implement them, we must also address the style of work. Mao Zedong viewed the party's policies as "the life of the party", and believed that "policy is the starting point of all practical actions of a revolutionary party, and it is manifest in the process and result of actions". The formulation of the correct policies of the party must go through the process of "from the masses, to the masses". The party's policies also have to be proven right or wrong in the practice of the masses."


All correct policies are in line with the interests and demands of the masses at that time and place, and are connected with the masses. Otherwise, they will not align with the interests and demands of the masses and will be alienated from them. In the process of implementing the Party's policies and completing work tasks, sometimes some behaviours violate the Party's policies and discipline. These behaviors can cause dissatisfaction among the masses towards the Party. Zhu De pointed out that if these violations of policy and discipline are not suitably overcome, it will cause the Party to severely alienate the masses. 

Regarding the issue of style, the bond between the Party and the people can only be strengthened by promoting the correct style and overcoming the poor style. Establishing a theoretical link with reality, maintaining close ties with the masses, and practicing criticism along with self-criticism, are the three excellent styles that our Party has formed in the practice of long-term revolution. They reflect the Party's dialectical materialism and historical materialism's worldview and methodology, demonstrate the correct scientific attitude of communists towards Marxist theory, the masses, and themselves, and are the fundamental guarantee to promote the development of the Party and its cause. In the construction of socialist modernization, we must continue to carry forward these three superior styles of our Party. In overcoming poor style, our Party's leaders have repeatedly stressed the need to oppose dogmatism, empiricism, commandism, tailism, sectarianism, bureaucracy, subjectivism, formalism, and arrogance in work attitude, believing that these malpractices must be reformed, because they will cause harm to the masses' interests and lead to alienation from them.

2) We must adhere to the cognitive route of "from the masses and to the masses."

To formulate correct policies and put them into practice correctly, it is necessary to maintain a close relationship between the Party and the masses and solve the issue of the recognition route. In 1943, Mao Zedong systematically clarified the recognition method and working method of the mass line "from the masses, to the masses". He said: "In all practical work of our Party, any correct leadership must come from the masses and go to the masses. This means gathering the opinions of the masses (dispersed and unsystematic opinions), and after research and understanding, propagating and explaining them to the masses, so that the masses adopt them, put them into action, and test whether these opinions are correct in the course of mass action. Then, we gather them from the masses again, and persist in pushing them among the masses. This endless cycle, each time more correct, more vivid, more rich. This is Marxist epistemology."

"From the masses, to the masses" includes the following basic links: One is "from the masses". From the perspective of cognition, it involves immersing oneself within the masses, understanding the reality, conducting serious investigation, thereby attaining an enriched empirical understanding, and understanding the emotions, will, desires, and experiences created by the masses. The people are the subject of understanding and transforming the world and have rich practical experience. If we do not infiltrate the masses, we cannot get a good understanding and absorb their valuable experiences, hence hindering the ability to make decisions and measures that are suitable for the local conditions and wishes of the local masses. In practical work, many of our cadres subjectively want to serve the people well, but if they do not delve into the masses, understanding the situation, and listening to their opinions, they often end up doing a bad job, causing losses to the masses. The fact proves, regardless of who they are, if they don't go deep into reality, don't go deep into the masses, don't listen to the masses' opinions seriously, they will definitely make big mistakes.

The second is "Gathering the opinions of the masses." This process involves extracting, analyzing, and organizing the empirical knowledge obtained from the masses to construct a systematic and rational understanding, which would form the basis for decision-making and problem-solving. The so-called "gathering" is not merely about stacking up the opinions of the masses. Instead, it requires us to apply the fundamental views of Marxism and its methodologies, sort out scattered opinions and experiences of the masses, and abstract them into systematic and scientific propositions. However, it is possible that some errors might take place during organizing, analyzing, discerning, and abstracting processes. Yet, by continuously consulting with the masses and researching their practices, we can reduce errors and detect and rectify mistakes promptly. The third part is "Going among the masses". This process involves using the masses' practices to assess whether the propositions and policies derived from them are correct and allow for further modification, enrichment, and improvement. In addition to advocating for the party's guidelines and policies and garnering their acceptance and implementation by the masses, it involves obtaining experiences of the masses in implementing these policies, hence examining and modifying these policies. 

Both party members and party cadres should discipline themselves and act as role models. During the revolutionary struggle, Mao Zedong always underscored the crucial role of Communist Party members as pioneers and role models. Zhou Enlai advocated self-discipline and adhered to the practice of "never separating from the masses, learning from them, and assisting them" as his self-cultivation principle and a fundamental requirement for leaders. Chen Yun reiterated the same principle and emphasized that the style of the ruling party directly affects the party's survival. Clearly, the party is a role model for the entire society, and the leaders at all levels are the role models for the party. If the party disregards the opinion and interests of the masses, it cannot expect the masses to trust and respect its leadership. Therefore, our party emphasizes that members and cadres should care about the hardships of the masses, listen to their opinions, and in particular, party leaders need to lead by example, uphold integrity in their public services, and persevere in their struggle against violations of law and discipline.

Section Five: Thoughts on the Party's Leadership
First, the leadership of the Chinese Communist Party is a fundamental guarantee for the victory of the Chinese revolution.
The continuous victories of the Chinese revolution and construction under the leadership of our party are fundamentally due to the scientific theory employed as its ideological weapon. It represents the fundamental interests of all ethnic groups in China; and it has steadily managed to decipher the laws governing the historical development of modern Chinese society. Simultaneously, it is proficient in applying Marxist theories of political party to constantly summarize leadership experience, gradually forming its leadership theory.



The party's leading thought is the scientific worldview and methodology of proletarian leadership. It is a highly creative, distinctly practical, and class-oriented theory system with a rich content and a very complete logic. 
The Chinese people's resistance struggles are extremely brave. In the history of modern China, in order to save the unprecedentedly severe national crisis and social crisis, the Chinese people carried out numerous unyielding struggles, and countless benevolent people tirelessly explored the path to save the country and the people. These struggles and explorations, each time had a certain impact on pushing Chinese society towards progress, but the direct outcome of each time was failure. It is proven that self-strengthening movements and reformism that do not touch the feudal foundation, old peasant wars, democratic revolutions led by the bourgeois revolutionary faction, and other various schemes copying Western capitalism cannot complete the national mission of saving the nation and antifeudal and anti-imperialistic historical tasks. China is looking forward to new social forces in search of advanced theories to open up a new path of revolution.

The great mission of leading the revolutionary struggle against imperialism and feudalism, striving for national independence and people's liberation, and realizing the revitalization of China historically falls on the Chinese Communist Party. After the Chinese Communist Party, as the vanguard of the working class, took to the political stage in China, the Chinese revolution entered the historical stage of the New Democratic Revolution. The Chinese Communist Party, in the practice of long-term struggle, played its political and organizational advantages, and united and condensed the Chinese people, who were viewed as "disparate sand," into an unbeatable force. After 28 years of hard and extraordinary struggle, especially after the Northern Expedition, the Land Revolution War, the War of Resistance Against Japan, and the National Liberation War, the reactionary rule of imperialism, feudalism, and bureaucratic capitalism was finally overthrown, and the great victory of the New Democratic Revolution was achieved. The long-cherished wish of the Chinese people to establish an independent, free, democratic, unified, and prosperous new China was finally realized. The reason why China could make a great historical transformation from the most tragic situation to a bright future is that it has the leadership of the Chinese Communist Party. "Without the Communist Party, there would be no new China." This is the most basic, most important conclusion drawn by the Chinese people based on the historical experience of the Chinese revolution since modern times and is a great truth confirmed by the Chinese people based on their personal experience.

The leading position of the Chinese Communist Party cannot be achieved by any individual's desires or wills alone. After the overthrow of the feudal monarchy by the 1911 Revolution, for a long period of time in the first half of the 20th century, there existed several options for what kind of country China should establish, and various forces were engaged in fierce struggles for this. One was represented by the Beiyang warlords, later by the Nationalist Party ruling group, implementing the dictatorship of the landlord and big bourgeoisie, and letting China continue on the semi-colonial and semi-feudal path. A second option was represented by some middle factions or intermediaries, who dreamt of establishing a bourgeois republic and leading Chinese society towards the independent development of capitalism. The third option was represented by the Chinese Communist Party, to establish a people's republic based on the worker-peasant alliance led by the working class, and to move towards socialism through the New Democracy. These three paths, or these three schemes, were repeatedly tested in the development of Chinese social history. The result was that the first scheme was abandoned by the Chinese people, and the reactionary ruling forces representing this scheme were overthrown. The second scheme did not get the approval of the Chinese people, and most of its representatives later admitted that this scheme could not be implemented in China. Only the third scheme eventually won the support of the broadest masses of the Chinese people, including the national bourgeoisie and its political representatives. The Chinese people accepted the leadership of the Chinese Communist Party and accepted the transition from New Democracy to socialism, which was a solemn historical choice.

The Chinese people accepted the leadership of the Chinese Communist Party, mainly because of the progressiveness of the Chinese Communist Party. Since its establishment, the Chinese Communist Party has represented advanced productive forces and taken the stage of history.



The new democratic revolution led by the party aims to oppose the plunder of China by imperialism, eradicate the exploitation and oppression of the landlord class and the bureaucrat bourgeoisie, change the feudal comprador production relations, and change the corrupt political superstructure built on this economic foundation. It seeks to establish a new political superstructure centered on the people's democratic dictatorship and fundamentally liberate the bound productive forces. From the beginning, the Chinese Communist Party guided with Marxism-Leninism, the most advanced and scientific ideological weapon, and combined it with the actual situation of the Chinese revolution, proposing and developing advanced theories and cultures that can greatly mobilize, inspire, and guide the Chinese people. The Communist Party of China, as the party of the most advanced class in China, represents not only the interests of the working class but also the interests of the Chinese people and the Chinese nation. Throughout the New Democratic Revolution, all the struggles carried out by the party are ultimately for the fundamental interests of the broadest people. The party not only proposed the democratic revolutionary program against imperialism and feudalism but also proposed clear struggle goals and political slogans at every stage of the revolution's development, laying the political foundation for uniting the people of the country to fight together. The party called on all party members to struggle bravely for the victory of the revolution without fear of sacrifice, and with the infinite loyalty and self-sacrifice spirit to the people, many party members created countless heroic deeds that can be sung and wept, setting up a brilliant example of seeking the benefit of the people wholeheartedly, thus winning the trust and support of the Chinese people. The theories, programs, routes, guidelines, policies, and all the work of the party during the New Democratic Revolution period show that the Communist Party of China is indeed at the forefront of the times, representing the development requirements of China's advanced productive forces, the forward direction of advanced culture, and the fundamental interests of the broadest people, and has made the greatest sacrifices for the great revival of the Chinese nation. It is precisely because of this advanced nature that the Chinese people deeply realize that the Communist Party of China is a faithful representative of their interests and will, voluntarily choosing and accepting the leadership of the party, and fighting for the victory of the New Democratic Revolution under the leadership of the party. This shows that the central position and leadership role of the Communist Party of China in the revolutionary cause of the Chinese people are deeply rooted and are unshakeable and unchangeable by any force.
The path that the Communist Party of China has taken in leading the Chinese revolution is extremely tortuous and difficult, and the Chinese people have paid a huge price to win the victory of the revolution and social progress. In this process, the Communist Party of China has accumulated extremely rich experience. Mao Zedong pointed out in summarizing the historical experience of the New Democratic Revolution, "A disciplined party armed with the theoretical weapon of Marxism-Leninism, adopting the method of self-criticism, and connecting with the masses of the people. An army led by such a party. A united front of all revolutionary classes and revolutionary factions led by such a party. These three are our main weapons to defeat the enemy." "With these three, we have achieved basic victory."
Marxism-Leninism, as the guiding ideology of the Communist Party of China, is a scientific theory and methodology for accurately understanding objective reality, with a progressive theoretical trait. Its vitality lies in its close connection with social practice, and it can point the way for people to recognize truth and open the way forward. In the long-term and complex revolutionary struggle, the Communist Party of China, represented mainly by Mao Zedong, overcame the erroneous tendency within the party to mechanically copy the texts of Marxism-Leninism and the experience of other countries. After arduous exploration, it summarized a wealth of original revolutionary practical experience and achieved the first historical leap in the combination of the basic principles of Marxism-Leninism and the actual situation of the Chinese revolution, thereby giving birth to Mao Zedong Thought. This theoretical achievement not only embodies the basic principles of Marxism-Leninism but also includes the excellent ideas of the Chinese nation and the experience summary of the whole party's revolutionary practice.



The Party has closely intertwined the tasks of the national and democratic revolutions, creating the theory and strategy of the New Democratic Revolution, pioneering the unique revolutionary path of surrounding the cities from the countryside and seizing power through armed struggle. The formation and development of Mao Zedong Thought have firmly rooted Marxism-Leninism on Chinese soil. Once this Sinicized Marxism-Leninism is accepted and understood by the Chinese people, it transforms into a powerful material force for revolutionary transformation of Chinese society. The Chinese Communist Party was able to lead the Chinese revolution to victory because it adhered to the correct direction of combining the basic principles of Marxism-Leninism with the actual conditions of the Chinese revolution, good at grasping changes in objective conditions and summarizing the practical experience of the masses, adhering to liberating thinking, and seeking truth from facts, and tirelessly pursuing its own path. This is the most fundamental experience summed up from the history of the Party.

The Chinese Communist Party is the faithful representative of the fundamental interests of the vast majority of the Chinese people. Adhering to the fundamental principle of serving the people wholeheartedly and maintaining close ties with the masses is the fundamental condition for the Chinese Communist Party to overcome various difficulties and succeed in the New Democratic Revolution. Throughout the struggle for national independence and people's liberation, the Party has always relied closely on the masses, seeking the interests of the people sincerely. In all its activities, the Party breathes with the masses, shares the same destiny, always takes reflecting the will and interests of the masses as the starting point and destination of all work, always draws from the wisdom and power of the masses to push forward the revolutionary cause, and gradually forms a set of mass lines about believing in the masses, relying on the masses, coming from the masses, and going to the masses. The Party uses this leadership and working method of the mass line to ensure that the Party's programs, policies, guidelines, and policies are formulated and implemented to best meet the demands of the masses, gain their support, and constantly improve the masses' revolutionary enthusiasm and creativity. This is an important guarantee for the Party's continuous victories.

The Chinese Communist Party must play the advanced role of a proletarian party, lead the people in winning the victory of the Chinese revolution, and also strengthen its own construction, constantly enhancing the Party's creativity, cohesion, and combat effectiveness. The Chinese Communist Party is the result of the combination of Marxism-Leninism and the Chinese worker movement, and the growth and strength of the working class is the fundamental condition for the founding of the Party. However, under Chinese social conditions, the vast majority of Party members come from peasants and other laborers, and many also come from intellectuals, as well as revolutionaries from the non-laboring classes. At the same time, the Party has long been in the environment of rural revolutionary bases. According to these characteristics, the Party regards its own construction as a great project, attaches great importance to the ideological construction, organizational construction, and style construction of the Party, and successfully solves the fundamental problem of maintaining the vanguard nature of the working class and building a Marxist-Leninist party. Through regular Marxist-Leninist ideological education and criticism and self-criticism, summarizing experience and party rectification, the Party can overcome subjectivism, sectism, and political "left" and right errors, learn from errors and failures, make progress, and gradually mature. The Party has cultivated and formed the good styles of combining theory with practice, closely linking with the masses, and self-criticism during long-term struggle, and regards these three styles as distinct from any other political party, emphasizing the importance of adhering to and carrying forward the party's good styles for the realization of the party's political tasks. After long periods of revolutionary fire and repeated tempering, the Party's organization has continuously developed and grown, from a party with only 51 members at the beginning to a mass Marxist-Leninist party with more than 4.48 million members nationwide in September 1949. The Chinese Communist Party is the most advanced and powerful leading force to ensure the victory of the Chinese revolution.



II. Basic Conditions for Implementing Party Leadership

Liu Shaoqi pointed out: The party's mass line is the path to establish the correct relationship between the party and the masses. It is about leading the masses with the correct attitude and method, and is about establishing a proper relationship between the party's leadership and the masses being led. This pointedly defines the essence of Marxist leadership science. Marxists believe that only the people are the real heroes, and only they can liberate themselves. The responsibility and role of leaders can only be to understand the demands of the masses, concentrate the wisdom of the masses, propose slogans and plans that reflect the fundamental interests of the masses; to inspire the consciousness of the masses, so they can recognize their own interests; guide the masses to organize and fight for their own interests; and summarize the experiences of mass struggles, directing the enthusiasm of the masses towards a higher stage. In this process, the main and fundamental force is the masses, and the role played by leaders is both that of a mentor and a student. Moreover, if one does not first and always focus on being a good student of the masses, one is not qualified to be a mentor to them.

Proletarian leaders never use the people as their tools, but consciously regard themselves as tools for the people to achieve their specific historical tasks. The ability to lead the people lies in being a wholehearted servant of the people. In a broad sense, this means serving the vast majority of the people; in a direct sense, this means serving those who are led. Leadership is service, this is the fundamental position of the proletariat to correctly understand and handle the relationship between leadership and the masses. From this standpoint, Mao Zedong repeatedly emphasized the need to closely link concern for the people's livelihood with the realization of the party's political tasks, to provide the masses with visible material benefits or at least not harm their interests as one of the fundamental conditions for leadership, and to act in the best interests of the vast majority of people, supported by them, as the highest standard for all communists' words and actions.

Therefore, whether or not one can gain the support of the masses and attain leadership qualifications, the first issue to resolve is the problem of ideas and concepts. Only by firmly standing on the side of the masses can policies, approaches, and methods that fundamentally represent the interests of the masses be generated. If one stands from the standpoint of individuals or small groups, treating the masses as tools for realizing personal or small group interests, one would ultimately stand against the masses and necessarily determine and adopt policies, approaches, and methods from the perspective of how to drive and control the masses. This is incompatible with the science of Marxist leadership. Our party repeatedly emphasizes that such leaders will definitely be abandoned by the masses.

Leadership presupposes the possession of certain power. In the practice of leading the people in revolutionary struggles, our party points out that it is very important to fully understand, both theoretically and ideologically, where power comes from. Exploiting ruling classes either believe power is god-given, or acquired through "personal struggle", always treating it as a privilege entirely belonging to themselves and superior to the masses. Guided by this view of power, even the most enlightened political opinions merely advocate "ruling for the people". The ruler is still themselves, not the people. In contrast to this view, our party believes that only the people are the true masters of society, and leaders merely serve as public servants who implement tasks in accordance with the will of the people.


The power in their hands is granted by the people. It is not the leaders deciding on behalf of the people, but the people themselves rule their own lives. The masses' obedience to power is their obedience to their collective will. If leaders misuse their power against the will of the people, the people can take back their power at any time and dismiss them. Under the guidance of two different viewpoints of power, the use of power will not only result in completely opposite impacts on the interests of the masses but also create leaders with vastly different positions, abilities, characters, and styles.

Who are the creators of history? Who are they serving? Who does power belong to? In summary, it's about who is the subject of history. The vast masses of people represent the advanced productive forces and the historical direction of society. Therefore, only they are the subjects of history. Upon deeply understanding this social and historical truth, leaders will consciously position themselves as public servants and conscientiously fulfill their duties.

Thirdly, the basic laws of our Party's leadership activities

Our Party, with the mass views of Marxism as the theoretical basis, analyses from an epistemological level the significant meaning of proper leadership, through summarizing the experiences of Party-led revolutionary struggles. It emphasizes the need to adhere to the "from the masses, to the masses" and "consolidate and persist" methods, to avoid being divorced from reality and the masses, overcome subjectivism, bureaucratism, and commandism, fully stimulate and mobilize the people's consciousness, positivity, and creativity, ensuring that leaders make correct decisions and put them into practice smoothly. The ideological foundation of this leadership method is to seek truth from facts; the organizational assurance is democratic centralism. The close integration of seeking truth from facts, mass line, and democratic centralism reveals the essential characteristics of various leadership methods in proletariat's activities of cognition and world reformation, embodying the most basic leadership laws.

Seeking truth from facts is the only correct ideological route that guides leaders to make scientific decisions and correct mistakes. Our Party emphasizes that all work is dependent on seeking truth from facts, but the difficulty also lies in it. The key to solving this problem lies in closely linking seeking truth from facts and the mass-line approach so that both can benefit each other. Seeking truth from facts is the prerequisite for adhering to the mass-line approach. When Mao Zedong solved the problem of leadership methods, he started from solving the thinking methods of the leaders, washing away the spiritual idealism. He first proposed that "the victory of the Chinese revolution depends on Chinese comrades understanding the Chinese situation," and reiterated the basic leadership slogans: "no investigation, no right to speak," "no correct survey, likewise no right to speak," thus making seeking truth from facts, investigation, and the mass-line approach become the guidelines for all Party cadres' thoughts and actions, realizing the first element of correct leadership. Again, seeking truth from facts must be based on the mass-line approach. The most basic channel to understand reality is to conduct research on the masses all real knowledge could only come from the masses engaged directly in various practical activities. If leaders don't learn humbly from the masses or personally conduct in-depth investigation among the masses and make assumptions, make decisions, express opinions and solve problems, they're bound to make mistakes. Because connecting with reality and the masses is so important and inseparable, to practice scientific leadership, we must start by learning from the practice of the masses. In 1930, Mao Zedong pointed out that by living solely from books, divorced from mass practice, one not only fell into opportunism or impulsivity but also risked veering onto the road of counter-revolution.


The mass line is the fundamental guarantee to achieve the leadership's intention. Correct decisions that come from the masses can only be realized if they are persevered with among the masses. Without the close combination of leadership enthusiasm and mass enthusiasm, it is impossible to accomplish any major tasks. Therefore, believing in the masses and believing in the party, are the two inseparable fundamental principles that our party and people have persisted in for a long time, and are the basic basis for doing a good job in leadership work. The more setbacks, pressures, and difficulties encountered in work, the more emphasis should be placed on these two principles. In the practice of revolution, some people believe in foreign forces more than in their own party and people, or they antagonize the party and the masses, and as a result, they always cause a lot of trouble. Therefore, our party emphasizes that leaders at all levels must go deep into the grassroots, into the masses, and work solidly to implement the party's line, principles, and policies. This is the correct way to follow leadership laws, improve leadership work, and raise leadership standards.

Democratic centralism, as the fundamental organizational principle of the party and the state system, is the embodiment of the mass line in the life of the party and the political life of the state. Collective leadership, the principle of minority compliance with the majority, and other fundamental principles and systems of democratic centralism are all based on trust and reliance on the wisdom and strength of the masses. If leaders believe in themselves more than in the masses, they will tend toward personal dictatorship; if they trust a minority around them more than the masses, it can lead to sectarianism. Both would destroy democratic centralism and undermine the enthusiasm of the masses. Democratic centralism is also the organizational guarantee for adhering to the leadership method of the mass line. It comes from the masses, and it integrates the opinions of the masses. It can only be concentrated on the majority's opinions according to the principles and procedures of democratic centralism; to go to the masses, action is needed, with the necessary authority to ensure it, and this authority can only be established on the basis of democratic centralism. As Liu Shaoqi pointed out in his work report at the Party's Seventh Congress, democratic centralism is the organizational law of the Party, and the correct organizational line is the mass line. This profoundly illustrates that adhering to democratic centralism is an objective requirement of the leadership law.

IV. Basic Methods of the Party's Leadership Work
In the process of leading the people to strive for national liberation, our party deeply explored the laws of leadership work and initially formed a set of effective leadership work methods.
Firstly, leadership work should focus on the center while taking other aspects into account. The party has different central tasks at different stages of historical development, and all the work of the party should revolve around this central task. Therefore, the leader of a region or a unit must place various tasks in an appropriate position, carrying them out in an orderly and rhythmic manner, much like playing the piano.



Firstly, it is important to distinguish between central work and routine work. Central work and routine work are interconnected but different, with routine work serving as the foundation upon which central work can spur routine work. While focusing primarily on central work, routine work should also be taken into account. If regular work is forgotten, and there is no grasp of actualities, one will become a naive politician. If regular work is not integrated with the party's central work, one can turn into a blind bureaucrat. Only by skillfully linking regular work with the party's central work and struggle goals in a certain period can one become a politically astute revolutionary with the party's leadership being fruitful. Secondly, one must correctly handle the relationship between the whole and the parts, with work being mainly centered and achieving consistency between the whole and the parts. Leaders must be skilled at distinguishing between urgent and non-urgent tasks, differentiating between primary and secondary work, central and routine work, ensuring key points while taking care of others, striving to align the parts with the whole. 

Secondly, the central issue in leadership style is handling the relationship between superiors and subordinates correctly. Our party points out that superiors and subordinates should trust each other on the basis of safeguarding the interests of the party and the people, which is an important condition for improving the relationship between superiors and subordinates. Superiors lead subordinates, but the basic attitude is to help subordinates and improve leadership by learning from subordinates' experiences, which is the key to improving the superior-subordinate relationship. The key to mutual trust and respect between superiors and subordinates is that superiors should be humble in learning from subordinates, absorbing and summarizing subordinates' experiences, while also passionately helping subordinates, enhancing their enthusiasm and creativity, strengthening their sense of mission and responsibility, and improving their policy level and work ability. Mao Zedong once said that the responsibility of leaders, in summary, mainly involves giving ideas and using cadres. Chen Yun also pointed out that leadership organs decide on plans. Implementing plans and checking the work must be subjective and objective. Only by conducting in-depth actual investigations and research, listening to the experiences and opinions of subordinates, and finally forming resolutions or tasks, can one conform to reality and withstand the test of practice. At the same time, superiors should help subordinates correctly execute resolutions or tasks and check the results of the execution. For new problems emerging in actual work, concrete analysis and handling is necessary, therefore, policy formulation and task assignment should be flexible, allowing subordinates to act according to actual conditions. Once the work tasks are clear, corresponding measures should be proposed, and concrete and realistic guidance should be given to subordinates to ensure the smooth and successful completion of tasks. In the process of leadership and leadership, our party emphasizes that superior leaders should be brave in criticizing themselves and daring to take responsibility, which is an effective way to resolve contradictions between superiors and subordinates and improve their relationship.

Thirdly, fully mobilizing the masses is key to undertaking all work. The masses are the basis upon which the party relies for existence, consolidation, and development, and are the sole source of the party's strength. At the same time, the party is also the tool used by the masses in their liberation struggle. Therefore, our party points out that party work should start with the urgent problems that the masses demand to be solved, which is a key to effective leadership. Caring about the lives of the masses and paying attention to their immediate interests is an important link to fully mobilize the masses and achieve effective leadership of the party; being good at linking the party's slogans, propositions, and policies with the immediate interests of the masses constitutes the main content of the party's leadership.



Fourthly, we need to apply various working methods flexibly according to specific situations. To effectively implement the party's line, principles, policies, and the spirit of higher authorities' instructions, we must pay attention to leadership artistry. We must adopt flexible and diverse working methods according to the different situations in different regions. Chen Yun pointed out that all working methods must be determined according to the different circumstances of each locality. General principles and methods can refer to the various resolutions of the central government, and at the same time, conscientiously combine with the actual situation of the localities at that time to propose appropriate slogans and flexibly apply various working methods. Formulating a working policy based on the actual situation is the most fundamental thought method and working method that all Communists must remember. Implementing the party's line, principles, policies, and the spirit of the instructions of superiors must be combined with the actual situation. It is necessary to study new situations, solve new problems, summarise new experiences, open up new situations, and creatively implement and carry out in practical work to push forward the business of revolution and construction. There are two wrong tendencies to be opposed here: one is to refuse to enforce on the pretext of special circumstances, the other is to enforce blindly regardless of the actual situation in the locality. If the resolutions or instructions of superior entities are blindly followed and applied mechanically without considering the actual situation of the locality, it is not a good working method, but opposition to the resolutions and instructions of superiors. As Mao Zedong pointed out sternly and sharply in the article "Opposing Bookworshipping", blindly enforcing the instructions of superiors without dissent on the surface is not really enforcing the instructions of superiors. This is the most subtle way to oppose or slack off the directives of superiors.

Fifth, the Correct Style of the Party's Leadership
Leadership style is intrinsically linked to the nature of leadership and is an external manifestation of a leader's position and world view. Mao Zedong particularly mentioned at the Seventh National Congress of the Party that it is a new working style created by the party armed with Marxist-Leninist theory and the Chinese people. It is a distinctive feature that distinguishes Communists from any other parties. Our party emphasises that to implement the correct leadership style, we must first pay attention to the differences from the leadership style of other classes and it must be based on theoretical advancement and closely linked to the masses. Our party points out that how to treat the masses is firstly a matter of position, purpose, and feelings for proletarian leaders. Sincerely regarding oneself as an ordinary member among the masses, starting from the attitude of respecting and loving the masses, and serving the people wholeheartedly, would consciously form and adhere to a good style. Without fundamentally changing one's worldview and emotional stance, focusing merely on the method can only maintain a superficial relationship with the people. Once the consciousness of being an official overcomes the concept of masses, various forms of wrong styles that deviate from the masses will arise, and the leader's image will change from "public servant" to "old master". This will result in loss of leadership authority and the difficulty of effective implementation of leadership.

The application of theory to reality is a key expression of leaders overcoming subjectivity and adhering to the proletarian party spirit. It requires leaders to have a solid theoretical foundation, a genuine understanding of reality, and adhere to specific analyses of specific issues. It demands truth and facts, striving to unify Marxist-Leninist principles, Mao Zedong Thought, the spirit of superior instructions, with the specific realities of local areas and departments, and creatively solve problems. It is also important to daringly think, act and follow a path not taken by predecessors; however, it is equally essential to ensure that thoughts and actions comply with objective laws and stand up to the test of practice. Our party emphasises that to achieve correct leadership, we must further promote this tradition.



Maintaining the closest connection with the broadest masses of the people is the source of wisdom and strength for the proletarian leaders, and the fundamental guarantee to maintain the nature of the "people's servant". It requires leaders to always understand the wishes of the masses, grasp the pulse of the masses, care about the suffering of the masses, and learn from the experiences of the masses. In terms of thinking, they should stand taller, see farther, and timely propose tasks that the masses need and can be resolved. In action, they should insist on moving forward with the majority of the masses. When most people are aware, quickly and decisively organize the masses to act; when most people are not yet aware, they should wait patiently and be good at inspiring. Their style should be modest and cautious, treating people as equals. Their life should be hard and simple, without any special treatment. In conclusion, they must not be detached from the masses, and they must not be superior to the masses.
Having the courage to carry out criticism and self-criticism, to carry out positive ideological struggle, to uphold the truth and correct mistakes, is an important manifestation of bearing the responsibility to the people. Our party believes that for us communists, starting from serving the best interests of the widest range of people, leaders should work humbly and impetuously for the benefit of the people, tell the truth, not save face, and treat shortcomings and mistakes in leadership work, whether they come from oneself or from other aspects, they should all receive serious and not perfunctory criticism and self-criticism and correct them in earnest. If one is arrogant, domineering, only saving face, covering the truth, or blaming failures and frustrations on the led, complaining about the backwardness of the masses, and even insisting on errors, that would inevitably lose the trust of the masses and become a loner.
Chapter on the Establishment of Mao Zedong Thought's Guiding Status Mao Zedong Thought's Guiding Position
Section I: The Whole Party's Understanding and Acceptance of Mao Zedong Thought
1. The Proposal of the Concept of "Mao Zedong Thought"
Since its inception, the Chinese Communist Party has affirmed the guiding position of Marxism. The gradual combination of Marxism with the practice of the Chinese revolution gave birth to Sinicized Marxism. As Mao Zedong was the main pioneer of Sinicism of Marxism and the main founder of the theoretical system of Sinicized Marxism, the Chinese communists named this theoretical innovation that carries Chinese characteristics as "Mao Zedong Thought". Mao Zedong Thought "came to maturity in the late period of the Agrarian Revolutionary War and during the period of the War of Resistance Against Japan through a systematic summary and multi-faceted development," The concept of "Mao Zedong Thought" is an acknowledgment and theoretical generalization of this historical fact. 
Just as the process from Mao Zedong Thought's inception to its maturity went through a long exploration, the emergence of the "Mao Zedong Thought" concept and its becoming the consensus of the whole Party also went through a considerable period. After the 1935 Zunyi Conference which actually established Mao's leadership position in the party, the Chinese communist party's ability to handle China's revolution independently became increasingly stronger. With the outbreak of the Anti-Japanese War, the party successfully transitioned from the civil revolutionary war to the Anti-Japanese National War, and Mao's leadership position was not only consolidated within the Chinese Communist Party, but was also recognized by the Communist International.



In September 1938, at the successive meetings of the Central Political Bureau and the Sixth Plenary Session of the Sixth Party Congress, Wang Jiaxiang, who returned to China from Moscow, conveyed the opinions of Comintern and Dimitrov affirming the correctness of the CCP's line and Mao Zedong's leadership position. The Comintern pointed out: since the resistance against Japan, "the political line of the CCP is correct, the CCP has truly applied Marxism-Leninism under complex conditions and difficult conditions." It also specifically pointed out: the problems that occur in the leadership, "it should be resolved under the leadership of Mao Zedong, and there should be a close unity in the leadership." These opinions of the Communist International have greatly promoted the whole party to further carry forward the innovative spirit under the leadership of Mao Zedong, and apply Marxism-Leninism to solve the problem of the Chinese revolution, which has also inevitably pushed forward the attention and research of the whole party to Mao Zedong's theoretical contribution.

Not long after the publication of "On New Democracy", there was a phrase in the party, "Comrade Mao Zedong's theory." In early May 1940, at the opening ceremony of Yan'an "Zedong Youth Cadre School", Wang Ming, then Secretary of the Central Secretariat, was invited to give a lecture on "Study Mao Zedong." He praised Mao Zedong as not only "the great politician and strategist of the Chinese Revolution," but also "a great theorist," calling for "learning Comrade Mao Zedong's lifetime career and theory." He also spoke from "constructing Soviet power", "constructing the Chinese Red Army of Workers and Peasants," "creating revolutionary military strategy tactics," "establishing a national united front," "establishing a new democratic power". These five aspects illustrate Mao Zedong's "spirit of creation." This is a preliminary summary of Mao Zedong's theoretical contribution. Wang Ming specifically mentioned "On New Democracy", saying that this work is a new contribution to Marxism-Leninism on the issue of the state. Although from Wang Ming's later statements and actions, his praise for Mao Zedong and Mao Zedong's theoretical contribution may not be sincere, but because of his study abroad background and status, this speech still has a considerable impact.

The party's theoretical workers have played an important role in promoting the theoretical contribution of Mao Zedong. Ai Siqi published an article in February 1940, pointed out: On the basis of practice, China "has already produced some theories to develop Marxism, so it has its own Marxism." This judgment has played a leading role in proposing the concept of "Chinese Marxism" and "Mao Zedong Thought". From March 1941 to February 1942, Zhang Ruixin's many articles proposed a series of important views and judgments. He first used the concept of "Comrade Mao Zedong's Thought," "Mao Zedong's theoretical and tactical system," "Mao Zedong Marxism," etc., pointing out: Mao Zedong's speeches and works are "the best embodiment of the sinicization of Marxism-Leninism", "Comrade Mao Zedong The theory is Chinese Marxism-Leninism", and it should "study how Comrade Mao Zedong applies the basic principles of Marxism-Leninism to the Chinese environment, and how to develop creative Marxism." He contributed to Mao Zedong's innovation and development of Marxism from different angles...or divided into four aspects: the social and class relations of Chinese society and the characteristics of the Chinese national democratic revolution, the national united front, the Chinese national democratic revolution The construction of power, the construction of revolutionary armies and bases, and the strategy and tactics of revolutionary wars; or divided into three aspects: ideological lines or methodology, political lines or political science, military lines or military science, and discussed it. Deng Tuo wrote an editorial for the Jinchaji Daily on July 1, 1942, titled "Commemorating July 1 and Learning to Master Mao Zedong Thought": "The Chinese Communist Party has nationalized and sinicized Marxism-Leninism in 21 years of struggle. The sinicization of Marxism-Leninism is Mao Zedong's Thought." "Mao Zedong's Marxism, is Chinese Marxism-Leninism, and every Chinese Marxist-Leninist, in fact, must and can only be a Maoist."

This article, like Zhang Ruxin's, categorizes Mao Zedong's theoretical contributions into three parts: scientific thinking methods, political science theory, military science theory and strategy. But it emphasizes, "The policy of concretizing, nationalizing, and sinicizing Marxism is the most essential feature of Comrade Mao Zedong's thinking methods." Following this, Deng Tuo also used the term "Comrade Mao Zedong's doctrine." Besides, Hu Qiaomu, Chen Boda, Tao Zhu, Lu Dingyi, Hua Gang, and others used Mao Zedong's basic theories and research methods in their works to analyze and solve problems, reflecting from one side that the theoretical circle recognized Mao Zedong's contributions.

With the Rectification Movement, the entire party’s understanding of Mao Zedong's contributions to the Sinicization of Marxism was advancing. This is highlighted by many senior leaders publishing articles to express their opinions. On July 1, 1942, Zhu De, in his article, "Commemorating the 21st Anniversary of the Party," used the concept of "Sinicized Marxism-Leninism" and said, "Today, our party has accumulated rich experience in struggle, correctly grasped the theory of Marxism-Leninism, and in the practice of the Chinese revolution, we have created the theory of Sinicized Marxism-Leninism to guide the Chinese revolution."

On the same day, Chen Yi pointed out at the 21st anniversary celebration of the New Fourth Army: Mao Zedong "advocates a scientific mind and scientific methods to deal with the problem of Sinicization of Marxism and Leninism," creating a "correct ideological system." He categorized Mao Zedong's theory on Chinese revolution into five aspects: the social nature of China, the revolutionary power, its future, and the corresponding problems of revolutionary strategy and tactics; the organization and leadership of revolutionary wars; the theory and construction of Soviet power; the issue of building the Party; and the correct thinking method, dealing with Western European academia and Chinese national traditional academic thoughts transformation.

In June 1943, Ren Bishi wrote that one of the fundamental reasons why Mao Zedong was able to "concretize and sinicize Marxism-Leninism" is his "strong concept of the masses and his attitude of humbly learning from the masses," which is the biggest feature of Mao Zedong's "thinking method and working method." We need to study Marxism-Leninism, especially Sinicized Marxism-Leninism. 

On July 6, 1943, Liu Shaoqi used the concepts of "Comrade Mao Zedong's thought" and "Comrade Mao Zedong's ideological system" in his article, "Clearing up Menshevik Thoughts in the Party." On July 8, 1943, Wang Jiaxiang's article, "The Chinese Communist Party and the Road of Chinese National Liberation," not only used the term "Mao Zedong Thought," which has been used ever since, but also discussed the "growth, development, and maturation" process of Mao Zedong's thought, clearly stating that "Mao Zedong Thought is Chinese Marxism-Leninism, Chinese Bolshevism, Chinese Communism." It is the creative Marxism-Leninism, and it is the development of Marxism-Leninism in China.

On August 2, 1943, Zhou Enlai made a speech at the welcome party organized by Central Office for him, stating that the Party's 22-year history shows that "Comrade Mao Zedong's opinion has run through the entire historical period of the Party and has developed into a path of Sinicizing Marxism-Leninism, which is the line of Chinese Communism"! Communism, after being used and developed by Mao Zedong, has taken root in Chinese soil. On November 10, 1943, Deng Xiaoping gave a speech at the Rectification Mobilization Meeting of the Northern Bureau Party School, pointing out that after the Zunyi Meeting, the Party's cause was completely under the guidance of "Sinicized Marxism-Leninism, i.e., Mao Zedong Thought."

The above shows that, with the continuous accumulation of revolutionary experience, the publication of a series of important works by Mao Zedong, the development of the Party-wide Rectification Movement, especially the discussion of historical issues by senior Party leaders, the Party not only reached a consensus on Mao Zedong's development of Marxism-Leninism, but also found the scientific statement to summarize the achievements of Sinicized Marxism— "Mao Zedong Thought," and made a preliminary summary of its basic content.



During that time, there were various terminologies such as "Comrade Mao Zedong's Theory", "Comrade Mao Zedong's Doctrine", "Mao Zedong Thought", etc. After selection, the Central Committee made a "Resolution on Certain Historical Issues", which was unified at the Seventh Party Congress. On April 20, 1945, the "Resolution on Certain Historical Issues" (hereinafter referred to as the "Resolution"), which was basically passed by the Seventh Plenary Session of the Sixth Central Committee, was a theoretical achievement of senior leaders discussing the history of the party during the Rectification Movement. It is a historic resolution that fully affirmed Mao Zedong's historical status and established Mao Zedong Thought as the guiding thought of the entire party.
The "Resolution" summarized the historical experiences since the establishment of the Communist Party and summarized several major historical issues. It critically criticized the erroneous tendency of dogmatizing Marxism and sacralizing the resolution of the Comintern and Soviet experience that appeared within the party during the period of the Agrarian Revolutionary War, and revealed the political, military, organizational, and ideological manifestations and their social and ideological roots of various "left" errors. At the same time, it highly praised Mao Zedong's outstanding contribution to solving China's revolution problem using Marxism-Leninism, affirming the important significance of establishing Mao Zedong's leadership position within the entire party. The draft of the "Resolution" approved by the Seventh Plenary Session of the Sixth Central Committee of the Party pointed out: "In the twenty-five years, the Party has produced its own leader, Comrade Mao Zedong, and has formed a correct line and thought distinct from all erroneous lines and thoughts -– Mao Zedong's line and Mao Zedong's thought." This is the first time the concept of "Mao Zedong Thought" is officially used in party documents. The "Resolution" discussed the basic content of Mao Zedong Thought from political, military, organizational, and ideological perspectives, expounding how Mao Zedong used Marxist positions, viewpoints, and methods to propose a set of theories, lines, principles, and policies needed for the Chinese revolution. The "Resolution" emphasized that the task of the entire party in the future is to "unite all comrades of the party like a harmonious family and a solid piece of iron on the basis of compliance with Marxist-Leninist thought, and strive for the complete victory of the anti-Japanese war and the complete liberation of the Chinese people".
The convening of the Seventh Plenary Session of the Sixth Central Committee of the Party and the adoption of the "Resolution" signaled the victorious conclusion of the Rectification Movement, strengthened the unity of the entire party on the basis of Mao Zedong Thought, and mentally prepared for the opening of the Seventh Party Congress and the incorporation of the guiding position of Mao Zedong Thought into the party constitution.
Secondly, the establishment of the guiding position of Mao Zedong Thought The Seventh Party Congress held from April 23 to June 11, 1945, occupies a particularly important position in the historical process of sinicization of Marxism. On the one hand, it pushed forward the theory of the Party's revolutionary nation-building; on the other hand, it systematically summarized the achievements already made in the sinicization of Marxism and clearly defined the guiding position of Mao Zedong Thought.
Mao Zedong's written and oral political reports and conclusions for the conference further enriched the theoretical content of the New Democratic Revolution.
Firstly, the total line of the New Democratic Revolution, namely "the anti-imperialist and anti-feudal revolution led by the proletariat," is fully explained. Mao Zedong said, "Our line, our program, summarized in one sentence, is the 'anti-imperialist and anti-feudal revolution of the people led by the proletariat'. This is the New Democratic Revolution. This line involves a team issue, an enemy issue, and also a leader and commander issue of the team." He particularly emphasized the important position of peasants in the Chinese Revolution, pointing out that peasants are the "most important part of the people," "the main force of the Chinese Democratic Revolution," "Without the peasants, there is no Chinese Democratic Revolution; without the Chinese Democratic Revolution, there is no Chinese Socialist Revolution, and there is no revolution at all," "The proletariat should mainly lead the peasants".
Secondly, the political, economic, and cultural programs of the New Democracy were further concretized, and new content was added.



Mao Zedong not only distinguished the highest and lowest programs of the party, but also for the first time distinguished the general and specific programs of the party during the Democratic Revolution. The general program is to advocate "establishing a national system of democratic alliances based on an absolute majority of the people", that is, "the national system of New Democracy".Under this national system, there are practices of New Democratic politics, New Democratic economics, and New Democratic culture. Among them, Mao Zedong particularly mentioned the "broad development of capitalism". He explained that the difference between this report and "On New Democracy" is that it determines the need for large-scale development of capitalism, and opposes autocracy first.

"Why do Communists not only not fear capitalism, but advocate its development?" It's because, "Replacing the oppression of foreign imperialism and the country's feudalism with the development of capitalism is not only a progress, but also an inevitable process. It benefits not only the bourgeoisie but also the proletariat. Nowadays, China has an extra foreign imperialism and a national feudalism, but not enough national capitalism. On the contrary, we lack capitalism." Of course, the capitalist development mentioned here is the capitalism that "cannot manipulate the livelihood of the people" and "New Democratic Capitalism". Mao Zedong pointed out that such a proposition clearly distinguishes it from "populism". As for the specific program, Mao Zedong listed 40 items, including: eliminating Japanese invaders and prohibiting midway compromise; abolishing the one-party dictatorship of the Kuomintang and establishing a democratic coalition government; carrying out land reforms and liberating farmers; developing industries and fighting for China's industrialization and modernization of agriculture; cultivating, uniting and educating intellectuals, and developing cultural and educational undertakings.To develop industry, Mao Zedong also stated: Foreign investments are welcome under the conditions of obeying Chinese laws and benefiting Chinese economy.

Third, he proposed the viewpoint of judging the historical role of political parties by production standards. Mao Zedong pointed out, “The goodness, badness, magnitude, and minor of all Chinese parties' policies and their performance in the Chinese people ultimately depend on whether they are helpful to the development of the Chinese people's productive forces and their size. Does it bind or liberate productive forces?” All the programs of the Communist Party of China are to liberate and develop China's social productive forces and build China into an independent, free, democratic, unified and prosperous country, which is why they are welcomed by the Chinese people.

In addition, in Mao Zedong's political report and Zhu De's military report on "On Liberation War", Liu Shaoqi's "Report on the Revision of the Party Constitution" and Zhou Enlai's "On the United Front", the Party’s military line composed of People's Army, People's War, and the strategic tactics of People's War, the party-building line emphasizing ideological and political construction while paying attention to organizational construction, and the principles of the Party’s mass line, good style, and democratic centralism, as well as the experience and lessons of the party on the united front issue since the period of the Great Revolution have all been fully elaborated. The Seventh Congress of the Party has added many new contents to the Sinicization of Marxism.

The Seventh Congress of the Party systematically summarized the fruitful achievements of the Sinicization of Marxism and formally established the guiding status of Mao Zedong's thoughts. This is an important aspect of the Seventh Congress of the Party advancing the cause of the Sinicization of Marxism. The contributions in this regard are mainly reflected in Liu Shaoqi's "Report on the Revision of the Party Constitution" and the new party constitution subsequently passed by the Congress.

Liu Shaoqi's report sums up the understanding of the whole party, and systematically and comprehensively summarizes and interprets Mao Zedong's thoughts, which embodies the first historical leap and its achievements of the Sinicization of Marxism.



First, the report elaborates on the complexity of the sinicization of Marxism and the reasons why Mao Zedong could successfully sinicize Marxism. Liu Shaoqi pointed out that due to the great specificity of China's social and historical development, and the underdevelopment of science in China, to systematically sinicize Marxism and to transform it from the European form to the Chinese form means to apply the Marxian positions and methods to solve all kinds of problems in the modern Chinese revolution, including many problems that foreign Marxists have never raised and solved, which is a special and difficult business. This cannot be accomplished by merely studying, reciting and quoting the works of Marxists, but requires a high degree of scientific spirit combined with a high degree of revolutionary spirit. It requires extensive knowledge of history and society, experience in revolutionary struggles, an indomitable spirit for the people's cause, the ability to apply the methods of Marxism to make precise scientific analysis of objective situations, and the ability to gather the experiences, will, and thoughts of the masses and apply them to the masses. It is only by doing so that one can make independent and brilliant contributions to Marxism in relation with Chinese reality and express it in Chinese language form, making it a weapon for guiding the struggle of the Chinese people. "It is our comrade Mao Zedong who has successfully carried out this special and difficult work of sinicization of Marxism." Why is this so? This is because Mao Zedong is not only "the greatest revolutionary and politician in Chinese history", who dares and is able to lead the whole party and the people in earth-shattering struggles, but also "the greatest theorist and scientist in Chinese history", "with the highest theoretical cultivation and the greatest theoretical courage", daring to make bold theoretical creations, "abandoning some of the outdated principles and conclusions in Marxist theory that are unsuitable for the specific environment of China, and replacing them with new principles and conclusions suitable for the historical environment of China". In other words, Mao Zedong possesses all the internal conditions for theoretical innovation, which is why he has successfully carried out the difficult task of sinicization of Marxism.

Second, the report defines the concept of Mao Zedong Thought from multiple angles, revealing its rich connotation and essential characteristics. The first is to define it from the internal relationship between Mao Zedong Thought and Marxism, pointing out that "Mao Zedong Thought is the thought of the unity of Marxist-Leninist theory and the practice of the Chinese revolution, it is Chinese communism, Chinese Marxism". "It is Chinese, yet completely Marxist." The second is to define it from the perspective of applying Marxism's requirements for timeliness and nationality, pointing out that "Mao Zedong Thought is the continuation of Marxism in the current era of colonial, semi-colonial, semi-feudal countries' national democratic revolution, it is an excellent example of the localization of Marxism". The third is to define it from its functional role in guiding the Chinese revolution, pointing out that Mao Zedong Thought is "the outstanding, complete, and correct theory of our nation about the Chinese people's revolution and nation-building" and "the only correct theory and policy for the Chinese proletariat and all working people to liberate themselves". The fourth is to define it from the perspective of the history of the Party's internal line struggle, pointing out that Mao Zedong Thought is not only formed and developed in the struggle against enemies at home and abroad, but also in the principle struggle against various erroneous opportunistic thoughts within the Party, "It is the only correct guiding thought of our Party, the only correct general line". Liu Shaoqi also pointed out: "There have been countless historical facts in the past to prove that when the revolution is guided by Comrade Mao Zedong and his thought, the revolution will be victorious and progressive; while when the revolution departs from the guidance of Comrade Mao Zedong and his thought, the revolution will fail and regress." Liu Shaoqi's comments, which conform to the objective laws of the formation and development of Mao Zedong Thought, correctly explain the relationship between Mao Zedong Thought and Marxism in terms of individuality and commonality, between learning and application and innovative development, and between its advancement and regression, success and failure in the Chinese revolutionary struggle, and therefore also provide proof of the necessity and need to establish the guiding position of Mao Zedong Thought.



Thirdly, the report outlines the main content of the thought system of Mao Zedong. Liu Shaoqi pointed out that Mao's thought, as the complete revolutionary and nation-building theory of the Chinese people, "is manifested in various works of Comrade Mao Zedong and many party documents. This includes Comrade Mao Zedong's analysis on the modern world situation and China's national conditions, his theories and policies on New Democracy, on liberating peasants, on the united front of revolution, on revolutionary wars, on revolutionary base areas, on building the New Democratic Republic, on party building, and on culture, etc." These theories and policies, are the "greatest expression of Chinese national wisdom and the highest abstraction in theory." The report summarized nine aspects of Mao's thought, which constitute the New Democratic theory system with Chinese characteristics, answering questions such as what kind of revolution China will carry out, how to carry out this revolution, and what kind of country to establish after the revolution. This is the main achievement of the first historical leap of Sinicization of Marxism.

Fourthly, the report calls for "launching a movement to study Mao's thought within the party", to welcome the "climax of Marxist culture". This is a call to push forward the cause of Sinicization of Marxism. 

Liu Shaoqi's scientific exposition of Mao's thought is an important milestone in the history of the Chinese Communist Party's understanding of Marxist theory and Mao's thought. If the establishment of Mao's thought reached the highest level of Sinicized Marxism of that time, then Liu Shaoqi's scientific explication of Mao's thought also reached the highest level of the Party's understanding of Mao's thought at that time. Despite some discrepancies in statements, terminology, and even analysis, its profoundly logical analysis and argumentation have made irreplaceable unique contributions to establishing the guiding position of Mao's thought in the Party and promoting the better understanding and grasping of this theoretical system by the whole party.

The preamble of the Constitution of the Communist Party of China adopted by the Seventh Party Congress clearly states: "The Communist Party of China, with the ideation of the unity of Marxist-Leninist theory and the practice of Chinese revolution - Mao Zedong Thought, takes it as the pointer of all its work and opposes any dogmatic or empiricist tendencies." This historic decision is the most authoritative confirmation of the great achievements of the first historic leap in the Sinicization of Marxism.

It should be noted that the naming of the party's guiding thought after Mao Zedong's name is mainly due to the needs of the party and is closely related to the understanding of the relationship between "Mao Zedong Thought" and "Comrade Mao Zedong's thought". At the time, throughout the party, including Liu Shaoqi's report, there was no distinction between the two, that is, there was no special attention to the relationship between personal creation and collective wisdom, and "Mao Zedong Thought" was equated with "Comrade Mao Zedong's thought". However, it should be pointed out that Mao Zedong himself did not consider Mao Zedong Thought to be solely his personal creation. He explicitly expressed this understanding at the Seventh Central Committee of the Sixth Party Congress and the Preparatory Meeting of the Seventh Party Congress. At the Seventh Plenary Session of the Party, when explaining the draft of the Historical Resolution, he stated: "The resolution credits me with many good deeds, I don’t oppose it, but it doesn’t deny that I have shortcomings and mistakes. They just aren't mentioned for the benefit of the party." In his speech on the guidelines for the conference work at the preparatory meeting of the Seventh Party Congress, he said, “All the good deeds are credited to me in the resolution, so I want to express my opinion on this. If it’s written as representatives, that’s acceptable. If it’s only me, that won't represent the party.” Not only that, he also did not advocate equating himself with the founders of Marxism-Leninism.



In the process of formulating the concept of "Mao Zedong Thought," Mao Zedong stated in a letter to He Kaifeng, the acting Minister of the Propaganda Department of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China: "My thought (Marxist-Leninist) is not yet mature, it is still in its learning phase, not at its propagandizing stage. If propagandizing has to be done, it should be about certain sections (such as a few from the rectification documents), and not be propagandized as a system, because my system has not yet matured." In August 1948, Wu Yuzhang, president of North China University, sent a telegram to the central government, suggesting that at the school's opening ceremony, he would propose "mainly learning Mao Zedong-ism," and "changing Mao Zedong Thought to Mao Zedong-ism." Mao Zedong replied that "Such a statement is highly inappropriate. There is no Mao Zedong-ism for now; so one cannot talk about Mao Zedong-ism. It is not mainly about 'studying Mao Zedong-ism,' but rather, we must call on students to study Marxist-Leninist theories and China's revolutionary experiences. The so-called 'Chinese revolutionary experiences' include some pamphlets written by Chinese communists (including Mao Zedong) based on Marxist-Leninist theories and the party's central policies and directives. Furthermore, some comrades have erroneously placed my name alongside Marx and Lenin, saying 'Marx, Engels, Lenin, Stalin, Mao.' This is incorrect. Both your statement and the later one are not in line with reality, and are unbeneficial and harmful, and must be firmly opposed." At the Second Plenary Session of the 7th Central Committee in March 1949, Mao Zedong again emphasized that "the Chinese Communist Party members should not be listed alongside Marx, Engels, Lenin, and Stalin." All these show that Mao Zedong himself had a clear understanding of the term "Mao Zedong Thought."

Around the time of the Party's 7th National Congress, to cater to the needs of the whole party to study Mao Zedong Thought, various volumes of the "Selected Works of Mao Zedong" were published successively in Anti-Japanese Base Areas and Liberated Areas. Before that, from 1927 to 1943, multiple individual versions of Mao Zedong's writings, thematic collections, and dissertations were published, and some of his works were included in the party's documentary collections "After the Sixth Congress," "Before the Sixth Congress," and "The Two Routes." This facilitated the compilation of Mao Zedong's selected works. The first edition of the "Selected Works of Mao Zedong" was compiled and published by the Shanxi-Chahar-Hebei Daily in 1944, divided into 5 volumes, over 400,000 words, including 29 written pieces by Mao Zedong, primarily writings from the period of the Anti-Japanese War. The objective of publishing this book, as stated by the Shanxi-Chahar-Hebei Daily, was "to implement Mao Zedong Thought throughout the party in the border areas." Only with the guidance of Mao Zedong Thought can the Chinese revolution achieve victory, so it is necessary for both party insiders and outsiders to deeply study Mao Zedong Thought. Based on this collection, Dalian Mass Bookstore slightly modified it and published a five-volume set of the "Selected Works of Mao Zedong" in 1946; the Central Bureau of Shanxi-Chahar-Hebei revised and published a six-volume edition of the "Selected Works of Mao Zedong" and a sequel in 1947. Later, the Northeast Bureau of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China published a six-volume set of the "Selected Works of Mao Zedong" (hardcover edition was six combined volumes)under the name of the Northeast Bookstore in 1948. This is another significant collection of Mao Zedong's writings, which includes 50 articles by Mao Zedong from March 1927 to December 1947, totaling more than 800,000 words. Besides the above works, on the eve of the victory of the War of Resistance in 1945, the Subei Publishing House published a selection entitled the "Selected Works of Mao Zedong." The collection started with eight pieces discussing Mao Zedong thought by Zhu De, Zhou Enlai, Liu Shaoqi, and others. Titled "On Mao Zedong Thought," it served as the preface of the collection. In 1948, the Shanxi-Hebei-Henan-Shandong Central Bureau of the Communist Party of China compiled and published the "Selected Works of Mao Zedong" as an "internal party document," which included 61 articles by Mao Zedong split into two volumes. Arranged by the "Period of the Great Revolution," the "Period of the Civil War," and "Since the War of Resistance," totaling more than 900,000 words, it was the most substantial and richest of all the selections of Mao Zedong's works published before the founding of the People's Republic of China. The publication of various versions of the "Selected Works of Mao Zedong" served as the textbook for the whole party to study Mao Zedong Thought, and played an active role in promoting the study and propagation of Mao Zedong Thought in all base areas and liberated areas.



Section 2: Strategic Thinking on the Transition from Rural to Urban Areas
I. The Historical Conditions for the Proposal of Strategic Thinking on Transitioning from Rural to Urban

China's societal and historical conditions determined that the new democratic revolution had to follow the path of rural areas surrounding cities. The timely realization of the transition from rural to urban areas is a fundamental guarantee for carrying out the revolution to the end and seizing and consolidating nationwide victory. In the second half of 1947, the Chinese People's Liberation War reached a turning point, and the People's Liberation Army entered a nationwide scale attack, disrupting Chiang Kai-shek's plan to continue the war towards the liberated areas and attempt to thoroughly destroy the liberated areas. Mao Zedong noted this as a critical turning point in history; it marked a transition from the development to elimination of Chiang Kai-shek's twenty-year anti-revolutionary rule and the hundred year long period of imperialistic rule in China. This was a major event. In October 1947, in the "Declaration of the Chinese People's Liberation Army," Mao Zedong solemnly issued the great call to "Defeat Chiang Kai-shek and liberate all of China" and deeply pointed out: "We now bear the most important and glorious task in the history of our country's revolution. We should actively strive to complete our task." It was under these historical conditions that the Party Central Committee promptly proposed to pay attention to and strengthen urban work, start the issues of political and strategic transformation, and urban work became one of the important agenda items of the Party Central Committee. In February 1948, the Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee requested to "not focus the Party’s attention on war and rural work, but guide it to urban work." In September, the enlarged meeting of the Central Political Bureau explicitly proposed to "strengthen the management of cities and industries, and gradually shift the focus of party work from rural to urban." From the end of 1948 to the beginning of 1949, the CPC Central Committee issued many specific instructions on policy issues such as military control, organization of city representatives, disposal of urban real estate, wages, prices, factory resumption, and reception of cultural and educational institutions, indicating that the focus of the party's work had begun to shift from rural to urban. In March 1949, the Second Plenary Session of the Seventh Central Committee of the CPC pointed out more explicitly: "From 1927 till now, the emphasis of our work has been in rural areas, gathering strength in rural areas, using rural areas to surround cities, and then gaining cities. The era adopting this approach is now over. Starting from now, we are entering the period from city to rural and city-led rural...The focus of the party's work must be in cities. We must make great efforts to learn how to manage and construct cities."

In the face of the glorious historical task, the Communist Party of China once again demonstrated great theoretical courage and fearless revolutionary mettle, promoting and developing the theory and practice of New Democracy, forming and developing a strategic thinking on the transition from rural to urban.

II. The Timely Establishment of the View that Urban Work is the Center of the Party's Work

Given that cities have always been the focus of imperialism and reactionary rule in China, the reluctant to admit defeat enemy would surely fight us hard with various means, Mao Zedong specifically pointed out: after we enter the cities, we must learn to wage political, economic, and cultural struggles against imperialists, the KMT, and the bourgeoisie in these cities, and conduct diplomatic struggles against imperialists. In these urban struggles, we must fully rely on the working class, unite other laboring masses, win over intellectuals, strive to have as many nationalist capitalists as possible who can cooperate with us and their representatives on our side, or make them remain neutral, so as to defeat the enemy step by step. At the same time, Mao Zedong emphasized: we must make great efforts to learn how to manage and build cities.

From the first day we took over the city, our eyes have been directed towards the restoration and development of the city's production industry; all other work in the city is centered around and serves this core work of production construction. Similarly, in all old liberated areas, the central task of the party is "to mobilize all forces to restore and develop the production industry, and this is where the focus of all work lies".

Under the guidance of the above strategies and policies, the Communist Party of China has extensively articulated strategic thoughts on leading urban work. In the process of taking over cities, Liu Shaoqi pointed out the need for a perspective that unifies both urban and rural areas. In the past we only had rural areas, now with the addition of cities, i.e., the addition of large industries, state-owned enterprises (of a socialist nature), state capitalism, urban-rural relations, and other new issues. If we want to direct the party's work as a whole with city work at the center, we need to think about and cater to these problems. The 'single-minded' approach must change, otherwise mistakes will be made. He believes that there are two issues that need to be resolved regarding the takeover of cities: one is the resumption of work in private enterprises, and the other is the rapid arrangement after takeover of enterprises, handing them over to appropriate authorities for normal production operations. The issue of city management post-takeover has not been fundamentally resolved yet. After the second plenary session of the Communist Party, everyone should try hard to learn how to solve this. In addition to receiving well, managing well, and transforming are also necessary. Some old things need to be discarded, but not too much, and new things need to grow. To build up the city, develop production, is to manage well. That makes workers and peasants approach each other. The power to rely on for urban work is the working class, Liu Shaoqi emphasized. In regard to the issue of city management, Chairman Mao put forward the question of who to rely on and what to do. Chairman Mao's answer was to rely on workers, to develop production. The workers are must to rely on. But, are workers reliable? Marxism believes that the working class is the most reliable. This is generally speaking. Specifically speaking, there are also issues. Therefore, we must strive to make the working class fully reliable. If we neglect and rely on workers without doing work, it is not reliable. Our party had a strong connection with workers in the past but was forced to move to the countryside later. The Kuomintang has been active among workers for so many years and has spread influence, it has complicated the inner side of workers; and our connection with workers has weakened, and we are unfamiliar with the workers' looks. So we must strive to learn, always pay attention to Chairman Mao's directives about relying on workers, strengthen the worker's work, and make workers fully reliable. There are three main methods: Try our best to guarantee the living standard of workers and not let it be too low; widely and deeply educate workers; organize workers. Deng Zihui pointed out the trend towards certain mistakes that appeared during the early phase of entering the city: It is very necessary for Chairman Mao to clearly affirm that the focus of future work will shift to the city, rely on the working class after entering the city, and urgently restore and develop production.



Who to rely on after entering the city and being vague in thought, Zhengzhou and Kaifeng first target the poor and hard labourers, forgetting industrial workers. This is a common phenomenon, and the idea of relying on the working class is unclear. The focus of urban work is to resume production, which I did not understand in the past and thought that production should be handled after the workers are mobilized; if the life issues of the workers are not addressed, how can you do a labour movement?

The most essential requirement of urban work is to promote the industrialization of China. Ren Bishi believes that: the focus of the whole party's work shifts from the countryside to the city, which is a "historically significant issue". The so-called emphasis on the city basically means relying on the working class to restore and develop industrial production, including light industries, heavy industries, and transportation, and organizing trade; everything else in the city, such as municipal construction, public movement, finance, culture education, and party construction should serve the development of the industry. In short, it is about starting industrialization, which is the most fundamental issue in urban work. He explained the importance of realizing industrialization from three aspects: 

(1) It is necessary to implement the policy of self-reliance. We have achieved self-reliance in politics and military, which is no longer an issue, but we must also achieve economic self-reliance to be completely independent. In other words, except for what we do not have in terms of resources in China, we can completely solve it by ourselves. We need to have a strong machinery manufacturing industry, as well as a military manufacturing industry, capable of producing aircraft, tanks, ships, etc. This is how we can be completely independent in terms of national defense. 

(2) The needs of the revolutionary cause to shift to socialism. If there are only military and political conditions, without economic conditions, without industrial development, it is impossible to turn to socialism, the past "left" leaning errors were here too. In the old China's national economy, the proportion of industry only accounted for about 10%, Ren Bishi believed that New China should gradually shift to socialism, the proportion of industry should reach at least 30%, so after the national revolution victory, we still need two to three Five-Year Plans, to transition to socialism. 

(3) The need to consolidate the worker-peasant alliance. The worker-peasant alliance, now and in the past, is mainly manifested in giving land to the peasants, emancipating the peasants from the feudal system, and realizing the alliance. In the future, agriculture needs to develop and farmers' lives need to improve, which means providing cheap industrial goods; at the same time, farmers supply the city with their products, promote industrial development, improve workers' lives, and this is what can consolidate the worker-peasant alliance. In the future industrial development, it still has to provide tractors, combine harvesters, etc. to assist agriculture towards collectivization, and agriculture has to support industry with a large amount of food and raw materials, surplus agricultural products, and labor, develop foreign trade, balance exports and imports, we must recognize this kind of mutually promoting relationship between industry and agriculture. 

In order to train a large number of urban work cadres and achieve the transition from rural to urban, there was a very prominent issue at the time, where did a large number of cadres come from? Mao Zedong has always attached importance to the cadre issue. Since the beginning of 1948, he has repeatedly proposed to attach importance to intellectual cadres and to absorb intellectuals, especially engineers, technicians, and staff with knowledge and experience, to join the revolutionary ranks. In the notice of the September meeting, he proposed that preparing cadres should not only rely on the old liberated areas, but also pay attention to absorbing cadres from the big cities under the rule of the Nationalist Party, where many workers and intellectuals can participate in our work. At the second plenary session of the 7th Central Committee of the Communist Party of China, he also proposed "We must prepare to turn the entire 2.1 million field army into a work team... We must regard the 2.1 million field army as a huge cadre school". Zhu De also emphasized: In the past, from city to rural was a big change, now from rural to city is again a big change. Our work needs to adapt to this big change. The army needs to gradually metamorphose into a work team from a combat team, which is also a big change.



Our army is a school, a school that is tasked with raising people who are capable of taking action. They will be responsible for managing and carrying out production in the future. 
Section three: Presenting the mission of "Two Musts"
Facing the change from rural to urban areas, and the test of holding national power, the Chinese Communist Party has put forward a series of guidelines and policies to strengthen the building of the party. This includes strengthening discipline, perfecting the system of democratic life within the party. The Communist Party of China is founded on the basis of Marxist revolutionary theory and democratic centralism, and since its inception has maintained strict organisational discipline. During the long period when the Communist Party of China and the People's Liberation Army it led were divided by enemies and in a guerrilla warfare environment, certain local party organisations and military authorities were allowed to maintain significant autonomy. This proved to be positive for activating local party organisations and armies, and overcoming long-term difficulties. However, it also led to some situations of indiscipline and anarchism, localism and guerrilla-ism, which worsened compared to the period of Anti-Japanese War, and damaged the revolutionary cause. This kind of situation was not fundamentally suitable for fully holding political power. Therefore, the September conference in 1948 profoundly emphasised the importance of strengthening the party within the new historical conditions.

The September conference believed that in order to adapt to the needs of the current revolutionary situation and ensure full unity in the execution of various policies by the party and army, as well as the full implementation of military plans, the entire party must make its greatest efforts to overcome these erroneous tendencies, and centralise all possible and necessary power into the hands of the central and representative bodies. Deng Xiaoping said in his speech: "The army moves forward, production grows a little, and discipline is strengthened". Of these three guidelines, strengthening discipline is extremely important as it is an essential part of ensuring revolutionary victory; furthermore, strengthening discipline is also linked with developing democracy within the party. The key to solving this issue lies with the higher authorities, the regional party committees, and the senior party cadres. Bo Yibo believed that strengthening discipline is a strategic issue, and the whole party should fully recognise its importance and far-reaching significance. Mao Zedong suggested that the central comrades should put their full efforts into this matter, so that the whole party and army could overcome these erroneous tendencies within the third year of the war, unite the people of the whole country, rapidly expel the invading forces of US Imperialism from China, and overthrow the reactionary rule of the Nationalist Party. The conference also pointed out that, within our party, due to the war environment or other underground situations, the normal democratic life within the party has not been well developed; even after the Party's Seventh National Congress mandated the holding of representative conferences at all levels, this situation remained largely unchanged. At the same time, to adapt to the special environment of the past and the needs of the struggle, the normal democratic life within the party could not but be limited. Some serious bureaucratic phenomena detached from the masses emerged in party organisations and government bodies; certain erroneous propositions, unorthodox sectarian style, and situations of indiscipline were allowed to secretly propagate and grow within the party, causing numerous losses to the party and the people's cause. The conference believed that the revolution will soon achieve national victory, and both the situation and conditions necessitate and allow for improving the insufficiency of the democratic life within the Party in the past period, so as to enhance the political quality of the Party and strengthen its fighting capacity.

Mao Zedong pointed out in his report: The way to implement democratic life within the Party is to implement the system of representative meetings and conferences. There is democracy within our Party, but it is insufficient or lacking, and now it needs to be increased. The method is to replace cadre meetings with representative meetings and conferences. The advantages of cadre meetings are speed, convenience, and ease of convening, and these advantages should be retained in representative conferences without making them too cumbersome. The theoretical level of our party must be acknowledged as still low, and must be improved.



Such a large party is either ignorant or not consolidated on many basic theoretical issues, which is exemplified by our party's low theoretical level. There are many new intellectuals and worker-peasant cadres in the party who don't know many basic viewpoints and can't explain many problems. There are millions of students and professors nationwide, as well as many theatre troupes. If you cannot put forward a coherent argument, you will have to listen to them. We need to improve our theory and also popularize it. Central Committee members and Politburo members should regard this as a political task to pay attention to, otherwise, they won't convince those comrades who make mistakes.

Ren Bishi said that during the war, especially in direct combat areas, centralization was required. The emphasis on a single lead was correct. "The liberation area in North China now has relative peace, both inside and outside the party should emphasize democracy, establish a democratic system, and the system must be implemented." He pointed out: "There are still phenomena of suppressing democracy within the party, which is caused by the conditions of the Chinese party and applying the management methods of the army to the party". Considering the existing phenomenon that party members dare not cross levels to reflect opinions on direct leadership, and the phenomenon of "small broadcast" appearing in the masses, Ren Bishi pointed out: "The main thing is the lack of criticism and self-criticism, and real ones, there is no small broadcast". He believed that holding delegate meetings and elections were forms of promoting democracy, but the essence was criticism and self-criticism. "If there are only delegate meetings and the words of small broadcasts cannot be openly spoken at the meetings, then it is only a form of democracy and no substance of democracy." The function of democracy requires long-term cultivation, "there must be democracy within the party first, then the people's democracy can truly be established. Ren Bishi emphasized that strengthening discipline is the objective need for the regularization of the army, the concentration of forces for combat, and the development of production after regional unification, more importantly, "as we move from rural to urban areas, we emphasize unity and discipline more, so as to avoid problems like Zhang Guozhu. And the more we move forward and win, the more these problems and this bad tendency are likely to grow"; "Otherwise, we will not be able to defeat the influence of the international and national bourgeoisie." He clearly pointed out that enforcing discipline is unconditional, but forming discipline is conditional. "Strengthening discipline has two conditions: First, the whole party should have 500 cadres who understand Marxism-Leninism. If cadres master Marxism-Leninism, they can ensure the uniform implementation of policies. Many issues have already been decided, and the Sixth Party Congress resolution has talked about it, but it hasn't been resolved well. If every county committee could have one person who firmly grasps the policy, the situation would be quite different. One must read those five works of Marxism-Leninism, busy can be used as an excuse to squeeze out others". "The second condition is to establish a system, enact laws, such as the regulations on deserter management, people’s court regulations, etc.", "We need big laws, as well as small laws, big laws govern small laws, and we can also allow the people to enact several conventions, but we need a unified law. There must also be a system in the military and government agencies, once the system is set up it must be followed." Will obeying discipline, emphasizing centralization and unification weaken local enthusiasm and creativity? Ren Bishi replied: "Strengthening discipline is not about reducing the enthusiasm of local areas, but eliminating blind enthusiasm and promoting systematic and organized enthusiasm."



For this reason, the meeting specifically discussed and passed the "Resolution of the Central Government on the Reporting System for Central Bureaus, Sub-Bureaus, Military Regions, Military Commission Branches and Preparatory Committees to Central Government", and the "Resolution of the Communist Party of China Central Committee on Convening Party Representatives at All Levels and Representative Meetings". After the meeting, Mao Zedong drafted a decision on "Strengthening the Party Committee System" for the CPC Central Committee. Facing great victory, we must adhere to the "two musts". At the January Political Bureau meeting, Mao Zedong proposed not to let victory dazzle our minds. He said, if the victory dazzles the mind, it is more likely today. The greater the victory, the heavier the burden, the easier it is to unite during critical and difficult times. We must be vigilant about this, educate our cadres, and first of all, we need to make our senior cadres understand that after the war is over, the real work begins. At that time, it might feel easier to fight battles.

At the Second Plenary Session of the Seventh Central Committee of the Party, Mao Zedong warned the entire party again. Because of victory, the sentiments within the party of pride, self-proclaimed heroes, pausing progress, and pursuing enjoyment and unwilling to live a hard life may grow. Because of victory, the people thank us, and the bourgeoisie will also join in the praise. The enemy's force cannot conquer us, that has been proven. The bourgeoisie's boast may conquer the weak-willed in our ranks. Some Communists may never have been conquered by the weaponized enemy, they are worthy of the title of hero in front of these enemies; but they cannot withstand the attacks of bullets wrapped in sugar coatings, they will lose to sugar bullets. We must prevent this situation.

Mao Zedong further pointed out: "Capturing national victory is only the first step in the long march. If this first step is prideful, it is relatively small, and the prouder ones are still coming. After decades, people's feelings about the victory of the Chinese People's Democratic Revolution will feel as if it was just a short prelude to a long play. The play must start from the prelude, but the prelude is not the climax. China's revolution is great, but the journey after the revolution is longer, the work is greater, and more difficult. It is now necessary to make this clear to the party and ensure that comrades continue to maintain a style of modesty, prudence and not being arrogant or impetuous, and must ensure that comrades continue to maintain a hardworking style."

In the conclusion of the meeting, Mao Zedong clearly proposed not to celebrate the birthdays of party leaders, not to name locations, streets and businesses after party leaders, to maintain a hard-working style, and to stop praising deeds. The task of strengthening the construction of the ruling party was proposed. Ren Bishi, during his speech at the Second Plenary Session of the Seventh Central Committee, proposed that with the shift in work focus, party construction must also adapt. He believes that after the failure of the Great Revolution, the Chinese Communist Party has been fighting in the countryside for a long time, and now 85% to 90% of party members are peasants, "this is very natural, but it is also a weakness, that is, it is prone to tendencies of laxity and lack of discipline”. After entering the city, "if we don't have a party base among the workers and can't establish a close connection with the working class, we can't really rely on the working class". Therefore, the main development object of the party in the city is industrial workers, followed by handicraft workers and shop assistants; if the development speed is too slow, it will compromise the work.



How to ensure the quality of party members? He pointed out: firstly, strict examination is necessary, new party members need to hold a joining ceremony, which "is educational for party members." Secondly, education needs to be strengthened, and organizational life improved. Thirdly, we need to regularly check the work of party members, carry out criticism and self-criticism, and strictly enforce discipline.
Ren Bishi warned the party's leadership and organization department at all levels: there must be strong cadres who regularly attend to party work. This includes branch building, the party's leadership style, working style, the thought trends of party members, etc. "Being busy with various economic construction and administrative affairs, neglect of the party's construction, forgetting about party work, that is very dangerous", this "is especially important for our Party when it is about to become the ruling party nationally."
Fourth, Develop production and unify financial work.
Regarding the economic work, the September meeting stressed the issue of production development and financial unification. 
The phrase "grow production by one inch" has been discussed at the enlarged meeting of the CPC Central Secretariat in Chengnan Village, and it was raised again at this meeting. 
The meeting believed that the restoration and development of industrial and agricultural production in the liberated areas is an important link in supporting the war and defeating the Kuomintang reactionaries. On one hand, the People's Liberation Army must advance a victorious offensive towards regions of the Kuomintang, obtaining a large amount of human and material resources required for the war from the Kuomintang and its regions. On the other hand, they must make every effort to restore and develop industrial and agricultural production in the old liberated areas, achieving a certain increase compared to the current level. Only when both of these tasks are completed can it be guaranteed to overthrow the Kuomintang's reactionary rule, otherwise it would be impossible. 
Mao Zedong said, "As the army advances, production must grow an inch, otherwise there's no food to eat." Ren Bishi said: "Now the economic burden of the people in the old liberated areas is very heavy, and coupled with labour burden, this makes people's burden even greater, especially on the Pingchuan Avenue. According to financial researchers, the burden should not exceed 20% of the income (excluding indirect burdens), otherwise problem arises in growing production by an inch."
To ensure the advancement of the army, Ren Bishi proposed that the old liberated areas should improve production, "make a bit more effort and put in a little more capital without hurting the vitality too much". "In the Central Plains, mobilize the masses to widely reduce rents and interest, in order to support troops advancing to the South during the fourth and fifth years of the war, and become their rear."
The meeting believed that in order to restore and develop production, it is necessary to have better organizational work, effectively lead the domestic market in the liberated areas and regulate foreign trade, solve some problems of machine and raw material shortages, focusing first on solving transportation and repairing railways, highways, and river channels.



Waste must be opposed, and frugality must be practiced deliberately: On the frontline, we should focus on confiscation for public use, care for our live forces, cherish our weapons, save ammunition, and protect prisoners; in the rear, we should reduce the expenses of state institutions, reduce the mobilization of non-urgent manpower and animal power, reduce the meeting time, pay attention to the agricultural seasons, abide by the farming season, save the cost of industrial production, improve labor productivity, mobilize the whole party to study and manage industrial production, agricultural production and business, as far as possible to organize the economy of each liberated area appropriately, overcome the blindness in the market, and fight against all speculators if necessary.

Mao Zedong raised the issue of financial unity in his report. He stated: "The Finance Committee of the North China People's Government will unite the economic, financial, trading, financial, transportation and military industrial potential, and necessary construction work and administrative work in North China, East China, and Northwest China. It is not everything that is united, but what is possible and necessary is united, what is possible but not necessary is not united, and what is necessary but not possible is temporarily not united. Such as agriculture, small handicraft industry, etc. are temporarily not united, while financial work, currency issuance must be unified first. Administrative unity means that the orders are issued by the Finance Committee of North China, and the party, government, and military of the three regions must guarantee the execution of the unified orders of the Finance Committee of North China."

Section III: Efforts to Uphold the Vision of a New Democratic Society  
1. The exposition of the thought of a new democratic society 
Ever since the Chinese Communist Party proposed the basic idea of New Democracy, with the victorious development of the democratic revolution and the deepening understanding of the issue by the Chinese Communist Party, the theory of the New Democratic Society was further enriched and developed in the late 1940s and early 1950s. This theory, combined with the theory of New Democracy revolution, forms a complete system of New Democracy theory. In 1925, the Fourth Plenum of the CCP pointed out: "After the victory of the national revolution, whether it is followed by the proletarian revolution, whether it is necessary to go through the bourgeois democratic system, the degree of the revolution of its own class in the national revolution and the social objective conditions at that time must be determined by the proletarian class.” In 1926, Stalin discussed this issue a bit in his speech at the Chinese Committee of the Communist International. He believed that the future revolutionary regime in China is a "regime of proletarian and peasant democratic dictatorship", "This will be the transitional regime for China towards non-capitalist development, or more precisely, towards socialist development, which is the direction the Chinese revolution should go.” Here, Stalin clearly proposed that the transition from democratic revolution to socialism in China needs a transitional regime. However, he did not specify how this transitional regime will realize this change. Two years later, Cai Hesen also wrote an article emphasizing the "Soviet power of the dictatorship of workers and peasants" as an important factor for the future revolutionary transition. He called the power of workers and peasants the "crane of transition". He said that after the victory of the Democratic Revolution, the Soviet government of workers and peasants should "confiscate all large enterprises of foreign countries and then confiscate all large enterprises of local capitalists, organize and direct the economic life of the whole country", and "quickly prepare for the transition to the socialist revolution, i.e., eliminate the capitalist market economy and replace it with the collective rural economy under the domination of organized state-owned city industry". When history develops to this moment, it is the "beginning of socialism". From Cai Hesen's statement, the process of transition from democratic revolution to socialism is not only the process of eliminating capitalist economy, but also the process of forming a collective rural economy under the leadership of state-owned industry. In this statement, Cai Hesen made the main task in the transition process very clear. But he is more about expounding Marxist theory, and his understanding of the actual process of future changes in the Chinese revolution is not clear enough. Because the Chinese Communist Party was in its infancy at that time, the understanding of many issues came from the guidance of the Communist International. Furthermore, the New Democratic Revolution had just started, and the Chinese Communists lacked the practice and experience of revolution. Therefore, it is impossible to have a full understanding of how to transition.


After the failure of the Great Revolution, members of the Communist Party of China began to shift their focus to rural areas, further integrating China's revolution with its national conditions, making the vision of change increasingly clear in this process. In the 1930s, with the deepening of the Chinese Revolution, the workers' and peasants' Soviet regime was established in various bases, and its economy was mainly composed of "state-owned enterprises, cooperative enterprises, and private enterprises". The principle of economic policy at that time was, "to concentrate economic power for the war, while striving hard to improve the living conditions of the masses, consolidate the economic union of workers and peasants, ensure the leadership of the proletariat over the peasants, compete for the leadership of state-owned economy over private economy, and create the premise for future development towards socialism". In December 1935, in the report he made at the Wayaobao conference, Mao Zedong proposed to change the Workers' and Peasants' Republic into the People's Republic to unite more people. He pointed out: "The government of the People's Republic is mainly composed of workers and peasants, while accommodating other classes of anti-imperialist and anti-feudalist forces." And he particularly proposed to protect the development of national capital industry and commerce. These ideas generated in the practice of the Chinese revolution became an important basis for the later concept of a new democratic society. In May 1939, in the article "May 4th Movement", Mao Zedong also argued that: "This kind of democratic revolution is to establish a social system that has never existed in Chinese history, that is, a democratic social system. The predecessor of this society was a feudal society (which has been semi-colonial and semi-feudal in recent centuries), and its successor is a socialist society. If one asks a communist why he should first struggle for the realization of the social system of bourgeois democracy and then for the realization of the social system of socialism, the reply is: this is the necessary course of history." Here, Mao Zedong explicitly pointed out that there is a transitional society in the process of transition from a semi-colonial and semi-feudal society to a socialist society. Although the term "New Democracy" was not directly mentioned in the text, its meaning is clear. After further theoretical exploration, in January 1940, in the "On New Democracy", Mao Zedong first proposed the concept of "New Democratic Society". He pointed out: the first step and stage of China's revolution is to "establish a new democratic society based on the union of all revolutionary classes in China led by the Chinese proletariat" and "then develop it to a second stage to establish a socialist society in China". He believed that in a new democratic society, the policy to be adopted is: politically, to implement a democratic republic of workers and peasants' union, based on the proletarian leadership, which unites anti-imperialist and anti-feudal forces, with the People's Congress system as a form of state power and implements democratic centralism. Economically, to take over large banks, industries, and businesses into state ownership, allow the existence of small and medium-sized capitalist industries and businesses, confiscate landowners' lands for peasant ownership, implement "the land to the tiller". In terms of culture, it promotes anti-imperialist and anti-feudal popular culture. In Mao Zedong's words, this is, "The entire result of the Chinese revolution is: on the one hand there is the development of capitalist elements, and on the other hand there is the development of socialist elements." After discussing the political, economic, and cultural forms of new democratic society, Mao said that the integration of politics, economy, and culture of new democracy is the new democratic society. In April 1945, Mao Zedong further argued in his report to the 7th Party Congress the historical inevitability and necessity of first establishing a new democracy and then socialism. He pointed out: we are going to push China towards a socialist society and communist society in the future. But, "only through democracy can socialism be reached, which is the inherent truth of Marxism". And in China, the fight for new democratic politics, economy, and culture is still going to be a long-term process. Otherwise, "to build socialism on the ruins of a colonial, semi-colonial, and semi-feudal society is just a complete fantasy".



The reason is nothing other than that "Our capitalism is too little". As such, in the New Democratic society, besides the state-owned economy, the individual economy of the laboring people, and the cooperative economy, private capitalism must be allowed to develop within the range where it cannot manipulate the country's economics and the people's livelihood. This "is not only a progress but also an inevitable process".

In the second plenary session of the seventh Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party held in March 1949, although the development direction from the new democratic society to socialist society was mentioned, it was only proposed as a future development rather than an urgent current task. At this meeting, it was still noted that after the revolution victory, a new democratic country needs to be established. The policies proposed after analyzing the economic conditions in China are still new democratic policies. Mao Zedong pointed out at the meeting: "For a considerable period after the victory of the revolution, it is still necessary to make use of the enthusiasm for urban and rural capitalism as much as possible to promote the development of the national economy. During this period, all urban and rural capitalist elements that are not harmful but beneficial to the national economy should be allowed to exist and develop. This is not only inevitable but also economically necessary. It is just that we need to "adopt appropriate and flexible restriction policies" in various aspects. It was also pointed out that in such a new democratic country, there will be socialist state-owned economic sectors, semi-socialist cooperative economic sectors, private capitalist economic sectors, individual economic sectors, and state and private cooperative national capitalist economic sectors as main economic elements. These economic elements constitute the economic form of new democracy. In June of the same year, Mao Zedong further emphasized in the article "On People's Democratic Dictatorship" that all elements of urban and rural capitalism beneficial to the national economy must be utilized, "Our current policy is to restrict capitalism, not to eliminate it". Liu Shaoqi also had a lot to say about this before and after the founding of New China. On May 29, 1949, Liu Shaoqi told a cadre meeting in Beijing that because our country's production is underdeveloped, mainly due to too little capitalism, after the victory of the democratic revolution it was inevitable to develop capitalism but this had to be restricted while gradually developing. The transition to socialism would happen decades later, which is difficult to be specific about right now, but the time will be quite long and not very short. On the eve of the founding of New China, during a discussion on the "Common Programme of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (Draft)", some democratic people proposed to include China's future socialist objective. Liu Shaoqi, on behalf of the Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party, responded: "We think this is still improper because it is still a long time in the future to take serious socialist steps in China. If you write this goal into the common programme, it is easy to confuse the practical steps we need to take today". Zhou Enlai, in his report on drafting the common programme and its features, also explained the reason for not including the future of socialism into the common programme. On June 23, 1950, Mao Zedong said in his closing speech at the second meeting of the National Political Consultative Conference that the implementation of private sector nationalization and agricultural socialization "still lies far in the future". "Our country is moving forward steadily in this manner, going through war, through new democratic reforms, and in the future, after the national economic and cultural undertakings have greatly thrived, after all conditions are met, and after the entire people have thought it over and everyone agrees, we can calmly and properly enter the new period of socialism". Here, what exactly is meant by "far in the future" was not explicitly defined by the central government at the time.

At the Politburo meeting in September 1948, Mao Zedong predicted that once the democratic revolution was victorious nationwide, it might be possible to start a full-scale attack on socialism within fifteen years. Ren Bishi stated at the second plenary session of the seventh Central Committee of the Communist Party of China: "After the national revolution victory, we will still need two or three five-year plans before we can transition to socialism."



During his visit to the Soviet Union in 1949, Liu Shaoqi wrote in a letter: "It will take about fifteen years to build socialism." At a meeting of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference in September that year, Mao Zedong was asked when the socialism would be reached, he replied: "Probably twenty or thirty years!" In April 1950, Zhou Enlai told the Party leadership and cadres attending the United Front conference: "It will take approximately fifteen years to build socialism." This shows that the New Democratic society established after the victory of the New Democratic Revolution, as a stage of Chinese society, would not exist for only a few years. Rather, it was seen as a relatively long period of preparing for socialism. This was a consensus within the Party, with Liu Shaoqi referring to this period as the "stage of New Democratic construction.”

On March 28, 1951, Liu Shaoqi gave a report at the first national organization work conference of the Chinese Communist Party, stated clearly: "The ultimate goal of the Chinese Communist Party is to realize the communist system in China. It is now struggling to consolidate the new democratic system, and in the future it will struggle to transition to the socialist system, and finally strive to achieve the communist system.” On September 9th of the same year, the resolution about rectifying the grassroots organizations of the Party passed at the Party's first national organization work conference stipulated the standards for party members (the eight conditions for Party members). The second one is: "The ultimate goal of the Chinese Communist Party is to realize the communist system in China. It is now struggling to consolidate the new democratic system, and in the future it will struggle for the nationalization of industry, and the collectivization of agriculture, that is, for the transition to the socialist system."

The scientific concept of the Chinese Communist Party is: after the victory of the New Democratic Revolution, a New Democratic society is established. The New Democratic society includes the stage of New Democratic construction and the transitional period. After the establishment of the New Democratic society, the construction of New Democracy begins. When the construction of New Democracy has achieved considerable results, and all the material and mental conditions for transition to socialism are fully met, the transitional period starts, with the initiation of the socialist revolution. After entering the transitional period, it remains a New Democratic society, still with co-existing components of multiple economies. But at this time, the capitalist economy has gone from "allowed to develop" to "accepted for transformation", the economic policy towards capitalism is no longer one of utilization and limitation, but of transformation and elimination; guiding farmers and craftsmen towards collectivization. When these tasks are completed, the socialist society is birthed.

The theory of the New Democracy society is a crystallization of the struggle experience of the Chinese Communist Party and the Chinese people, it is a great creation by Mao Zedong and other leaders of the Communist Party of China. This theory, along with the theory of the New Democracy Revolution, together constitute the complete system of the New Democratic theory.

Second, the Construction of the Theory of People's Democratic Dictatorship.

Political platforms generally include the state system and the form of state power, that is, the two aspects of state nature and political structure. In political science, "state nature" refers to the class nature of the state, and the central issue is the position of various classes in the state.



The term "political system" refers to the form of organization of state power, that is, which form is chosen and adopted by the ruling class to organize the organs of power, and to implement its rule and management. The national system determines the political system, and is reflected through the political system. The political system is compatible with the national system. Different classes' dictatorships form different national systems, and due to different historical conditions and traditions in each country, political systems also differ. Even countries with the same national system can adopt different political systems.
New Democracy politics mainly includes the social foundation of New Democracy state power and the content of the national system and political system of New Democracy state.
Regarding the issue of the social foundation of New Democracy state power, Mao Zedong pointed out in "On New Democracy" that the Chinese proletariat, peasants, intellectuals and other petty bourgeoisie are the basic forces determining the fate of the state. These classes, either already awakened or waking up, are bound to become the fundamental components of the state construction and power structure of the Republic of China, with the proletariat being the leading force. The Republic of China that needs to be established today can only be a Democratic Republic of all anti-imperialist and anti-feudal people under the leadership of the proletariat. This is the Republic of New Democracy. This New Democratic Republic is distinguished from the old forms of Western-style, bourgeois dictatorship, and capitalist republic, which is the republic of Old Democracy, which is outdated. On the other hand, it is also different from the Soviet-style, proletariat dictatorship, and socialist republic. That kind of socialist republic has flourished in the Soviet Union and is about to be established in all capitalist countries. Without a doubt, it will become the ruling form of state construction and political power structure in all industrially advanced countries. However, such a republic is not suitable for the revolution of colonial and semi-colonial countries in a certain historical period. Therefore, the form of state adopted by the revolution of all colonial and semi-colonial countries during a certain historical period can only be the third form, which is the so-called New Democratic Republic. This is a form of a certain historical period, so it is a transitional form, but it is an indispensable necessary form. Mao Zedong pointed out that among the various state systems worldwide, classified by the class nature of their power, there are fundamentally no more than three types: 1) Republic under bourgeois dictatorship; 2) Republic under proletariat dictatorship; 3) Republic under joint dictatorship of several revolutionary classes. The first is the state of Old Democracy. Today, after the outbreak of the second imperialist war, many capitalist countries have lost their democratic breath and have transformed or are about to transform into bloody military dictatorship of bourgeoisie. Some countries under joint dictatorship of landowners and bourgeoisie can be attached to this category. The second one, except for the Soviet Union, is brewing in various capitalist countries. It will become the world ruling form in a certain period. The third one is the transitional form of state adopted by the revolution of colonial and semi-colonial countries. The revolution in each colonial and semi-colonial country will inevitably have some different characteristics, but these are minor differences within a great similarity. As long as it is a revolution in a colony or a semi-colony, its state construction and political power structure will fundamentally be the same, that is, a New Democratic state where several classes opposing imperialism unite to jointly rule. In today's China, this form of New Democracy is the form of the Anti-Japanese United Front. It is anti-Japanese, opposing imperialism; it is also a coalition of several revolutionary classes, a united front.


To further clarify the connotation of new democratic politics, Mao Zedong discussed the so-called issue of the state system. He said, this issue of the state system has been a matter of contention since the late Qing Dynasty, and it has still not been fully understood after decades of dispute. In fact, it only refers to one question, which is the status of various social classes in the country. The bourgeoisie always conceals this class status, using the term "national" to achieve its actual one-class dictatorship. This kind of concealment is of no benefit to the revolutionary people and should be clearly pointed out. The word "national" can be used, but national does not include counter-revolutionaries and traitors. The dictatorship of all revolutionary classes over counter-revolutionary traitors, that is the state we want now. "The so-called civil rights system in modern countries is often monopolized by the bourgeoisie, and it becomes a tool for oppressing the people. If it is the civil rights of the Kuomintang, it is shared by ordinary people, and it is not a privilege of the few." Moreover, there is the so-called issue of political system, which refers to the form of the composition of political power, and it refers to the form of a certain social class to organize the political power organ that opposes the enemy and protects itself. Without the appropriate form of political power organ, it cannot represent the country. China can now adopt a system of the National People’s Congress, Provincial People’s Congress, County People’s Congress, District People’s Congress, and Town People’s Congress, with governments elected by representatives from all levels. But one must implement a truly universal equal electoral system that has no differences in sex, belief, property, education, and so on, to suit the positions of all revolutionary classes in the country, suit the expression of public opinion and command of revolutionary struggle, and suit the spirit of new democracy. This system is the democratic centralism. Only a government of democratic centralism can fully carry out the will of all revolutionary people and can most powerfully oppose the enemies of the revolution. "The spirit of not being a private possession of a few" must be reflected in the composition of the government and the army, and without a real democratic system, this goal cannot be achieved, which is called incompatibility of political system and state system. Mao Zedong pointed out clearly that the state system refers to the dictatorship of all revolutionary classes; the political system refers to democratic centralism. This is the politics of new democracy, this is the republic of new democracy, this is the republic of the Anti-Japanese United Front, this is the republic of the new Three People's Principles of the three major policies, this is the truly deserving "Republic of China". We now have the name "Republic of China", but not the reality of the "Republic of China". We should honor the name by instilling the reality, this is the work of today. This is the internal political relationship that revolutionary China and anti-Japanese China should and must establish, this is the only correct direction for today's nation-building work. At the Seventh Congress of the Party in 1945, Mao Zedong further elaborated on the politics of new democracy. He said: We advocate the establishment of a state system of democratic alliance of the united front under the leadership of the working class based on the vast majority of the people in the country after thoroughly defeating the Japanese aggressors, that is, the state system of new democracy. The political power organization of new democracy should adopt the democratic centralism, with major policy guidelines determined by the people's representatives at all levels, and the government elected.



This is a national system that truly suits the majority of China's population. In this country, contradictions still exist among different classes, each with some different demands, such as the contradiction between labor and capital, being a prominent one. However, these contradictions and different demands can be adjusted and should not and will not be allowed to exceed the common requirements during the entire stage of New Democracy. In December 1947, Mao Zedong explicitly proposed the political program of New Democracy. He said: "'To unite all oppressed classes, people's organizations, democratic parties, minorities, overseas Chinese in various places, and other patriots to form a national united front, overthrow Chiang Kai-shek's dictatorship, and establish a democratic united government.' This is the most basic political program of the People's Liberation Army and the Chinese Communist Party." In September 1948, Mao Zedong explicitly proposed in the report of the Political Bureau of the Central Committee to "establish a people's democratic dictatorship based on the alliance of workers and peasants led by the proletariat" in the future, and said, "The class nature of our power is such: it's led by the proletariat, based on the alliance of workers and peasants, and not only includes the workers and peasants, but also the participation of democratic capitalists in the people's democratic dictatorship." Soon after that, he called for the revolution to be carried out to the end, clearly stating that after the victory of the revolution, a People's Democratic Republic led by the proletariat and mainly composed of the alliance of workers and peasants should be established nationwide. On June 30, 1949, in the article "On the People's Democratic Dictatorship," Mao Zedong established the historical inevitability of establishing a people's democratic dictatorship in China. He clarified the basic tasks of the people's democratic dictatorship, the relationship between democracy and dictatorship, and positions of each class in the people's democratic dictatorship, thus forming a complete theory of the people's democratic dictatorship.

Mao Zedong profoundly elucidated the historical inevitability of establishing the people's democratic dictatorship in China. The article summarized the historical experience of both positive and negative aspects in China for over a hundred years, depicting the path that Chinese progressives have taken in seeking revolutionary truths since the Opium War, clarifying that Marxism-Leninism is the guiding light of the Chinese revolution; only by implementing the people's democratic dictatorship can the Chinese people overthrow the 'three mountains' and take the only path to socialism. Mao Zedong criticized various plans for bourgeois republics advocated by bourgeois representatives and pointed out: "There have been bourgeois republics in foreign countries, but China cannot have one, because China is a country oppressed by imperialism." "Summarizing our experience, concentrated in one point, it is the people's democratic dictatorship based on the alliance of workers and peasants led by the working class (through the Communist Party). This dictatorship must unite with the international revolutionary forces. This is our formula, this is our main experience, this is our main program." He made clear the nature of the new China and the positions and relationships of each class in the state power. Mao Zedong pointed out that the imminent People's Republic of China would be a state of people's democratic dictatorship with the working class as the leadership, and the alliance of workers and peasants as the base. 

In China, at the current stage, the people include the working class, the peasant class, the urban petty bourgeoisie, and the national bourgeoisie. Among them, the working class is the leading force of the people's democratic dictatorship. Because only the working class has the most foresight, is the most selfless, and is the most thorough in revolution. History has proven that there is no revolution without the leadership of the working class, while there is victory in the revolution with the leadership of the working class. The basis of the people's democratic dictatorship is the alliance of the working class, the peasant class, and the urban petty bourgeoisie, mainly the alliance of workers and peasants. Because these two classes account for 80% to 90% of China's population, the forces to overthrow imperialism and the Kuomintang reactionaries mainly come from these two classes. The transition to socialism must rely on this alliance. In addition, the people's democratic dictatorship also includes a special alliance between the proletariat and the national bourgeoisie. Mao Zedong pointed out that "in order to cope with the oppression of imperialism and to upgrade the backward economic status, China must take advantage of all capitalism factors beneficial to the national economy and people's livelihood in both urban and rural areas, and unite with the national bourgeoisie to strive."


"Our current policy is to control capitalism, not to eliminate capitalism." However, the national bourgeoisie cannot act as the leader of the revolution and should not hold a dominant position in the state power. Highlighting the content of the people's democratic dictatorship and the relationship between democracy and dictatorship, Mao Zedong pointed out: "The combination of the democratic aspect within the people and the dictatorship aspect against the reactionaries constitutes the people's democratic dictatorship." This statement not only directly indicates the content of the people's democracy and the dictatorship against the enemies, in substance but also in form.

To implement democracy for the people is to ensure that the broad masses of working people are the masters of their own affairs, fully enjoying various freedoms and democratic rights. In particular, the rights of workers to manage the state, various enterprises, and cultural education should be guaranteed. Address internal contradictions among the people in accordance with the principles of democracy, implementing democratic centralism. The contradictions among the people can only be resolved democratically, educating and transforming ourselves. Only in this way can we fully reflect the will, interests, and needs of the people, enhance the sense of responsibility of the broad masses, and ensure the smooth progress of our cause.

To practice dictatorship against the enemy means to suppress and oppress these antagonists, only allowing them to abide by the rules and not allowing them to speak or act recklessly. If they want to speak and act arbitrarily, they will be immediately banned and sanctioned. "If not so, the revolution will fail, the people will suffer, the country will perish." Of course, dictating against the enemy does not mean suppressing them ruthlessly or exterminating them physically. Only after their political power has been overthrown, they are provided with land and work, allowing them to transform themselves into new people through labor.

Mao Zedong pointed out that the relationship between democracy and dictatorship is a combination, interaction, and indivisible. Historical experience shows that without people's democracy, there would be no dictatorship against the enemy; without dictatorship against the enemy, people's democracy could not be guaranteed. He proposed the basic tasks of the people's democratic dictatorship.

First, we must strengthen the state apparatus, namely, strengthen the people's army, the people's police, and the people's courts, in order to consolidate national defense and protect the interests of the people. Suppress the resistance of the reactionary classes domestically and resist the aggression and subversion of imperialism abroad. Second, we must progressively solve the problem of national industrialization.



Carrying out economic work and undertaking serious economic construction tasks. Third, reforming non-socialist economy, educating and reforming the national bourgeoisie, so that in the future, privatization of private enterprises can be realized. Educate and reform small production, "the serious problem is to educate the peasants," use long-term and careful work, implement the socialization of agriculture, so that China gradually moves from an agricultural country to an industrial country. Fourth, fight against all old thoughts in political thought, use democratic methods, educate and reform oneself, reform one's bad habits and ideas from the old society, and move towards socialism and communism.

The People's Democratic Dictatorship is a new form of dictatorship created by the Chinese Communist Party based on Marxist state theory, combined with Chinese reality, with national characteristics, and suitable for China's national conditions. Compared with the dictatorship of the proletariat, there are both similarities and significant differences. The similarities are first, both are led by the proletariat and its party; second, both are based on the worker-peasant alliance; third, both provide political guarantees for the development of socialism. The differences are first, the scope of people's democracy is different. Under the dictatorship of the proletariat, the people do not include the bourgeoisie; under the rule of the People's Democratic Dictatorship, the people not only include the working class, peasant class, petty bourgeoisie, but also include the national bourgeoisie. Second, the target of the dictatorship is different. Under the dictatorship of the proletariat, the bourgeoisie is the target of dictatorship; under the rule of the People's Democratic Dictatorship, the national bourgeoisie is not the target of dictatorship, and the target of dictatorship is reactionaries or enemies. In 1956, the socialist reform was fundamentally completed, the bourgeoisie and the capitalist exploitation system no longer existed, the socialist system was fully established, and our country’s People’s Democratic Dictatorship was essentially a dictatorship of the proletariat.

The theory of the people's democratic dictatorship is a product of the combination of Marxist-Leninist theories of proletarian revolution and dictatorship with Chinese reality, and a great creation of the Chinese Communist Party leading the people in long-term revolution and construction practice. It is the highest stage of development of new democratic political theory and program. Our country's People’s Democratic Dictatorship has gone through three stages of development: During the period of the New Democratic Revolution, the People’s Democratic Dictatorship established in the revolutionary base areas was just a local, not a national power. This rule, under the leadership of the workers’ party—the Communist Party, was a joint dictatorship of all revolutionary classes. Its task was to overthrow the reactionary rule of imperialism, feudalism, and bureaucratic capitalism and to resolve the tasks of the democratic revolution. Since the founding of the People's Republic of China, our country's People’s Democratic Dictatorship has gone through two stages of development: the transition period from New Democracy to socialism, and the socialist era. Our Party and Mao Zedong have pointed out many times that the People’s Democratic Dictatorship in these two stages was essentially a dictatorship of the proletariat. Therefore, for a long period of time in our country, the two terms People’s Democratic Dictatorship and proletarian dictatorship coexisted and were interchangeable. This is because both are the same in the fundamental aspects of the workers' class and its party leading the state, the worker-peasant alliance as the class basis of state power, the historical mission of eliminating classes and realizing communism, and the state functions of new democracy and new dictatorship. Lenin once said: “All nations will inevitably move towards socialism, but all nations will not move in the exact same way, in this or that form of democracy, in this or that type of proletarian dictatorship, and in the speed of socialist transformation in all aspects of social life, each nation will have its own characteristics." Our country's People’s Democratic Dictatorship is a type of proletarian dictatorship that is suitable for China's national conditions and revolutionary traditions. Connected with the above characteristics of the theory of people's democratic dictatorship is the theory of the transition from a new democratic society to a socialist society, which further enriches and perfects the party's new democratic political theory and makes this theory a more complete system.


The theory of the Party's revolutionary transition includes the following aspects: First, after the victory of the democratic revolution in China, it is necessary to immediately transition to the socialist revolution. Mao Zedong pointed out, "The Chinese revolution includes two different stages: the bourgeois democratic nature of the revolution (i.e., the New Democratic Revolution) and the proletarian socialist nature of the revolution. The former stage is the necessary preparation for the latter stage, and the latter stage is the development result of the former stage. "The socialist revolution is the inevitable trend of the democratic revolution." After the conclusion of the New Democratic Revolution, it is necessary to immediately transition to the socialist revolution without pause. This is the development law of the Chinese revolution. Mao Zedong also believed that the New Democratic country already possesses favorable factors for future development to socialism. These are: the leadership of the proletariat and its Chinese Communist Party in the New Democratic society, the People's Democracy based on the alliance of workers and peasants including various democratic classes, the state-owned economy of socialist nature and the cooperative economy of half-socialist nature, plus the formation of the socialist camp. This favorable international environment makes the final result of China's bourgeois democratic revolution avoid the prospect of capitalism and realize the prospect of socialism. This idea of revolutionary transformation fully embodies Marx's theory of "continuous revolution." It not only clarifies the goal of the current revolutionary struggle but also mentally prepares for socialism in the future.

Second, the transition from semi-colonial and semi-feudal society to socialist society in China cannot be conducted directly. It must go through a transitional period, which is the New Democratic society. The state it intends to establish is the New Democratic state. Mao Zedong said: The stage of China's New Democratic Revolution is "a transitional stage to end semi-colonial, semi-feudal society and establish a socialist society." The state to be established in this transitional stage can only be a New Democratic Republic. This New Democratic Republic is "an unalterable requisite form" of transition taken by all "semi-colonial countries' revolutions". As long as it is the revolution of a semi-colonial country, the state established after the revolution can only adopt the form of a New Democratic Republic. Although the New Democratic Republic is only a historical form for a certain period, it is the "necessary form" for the transition to a socialist society. Mao Zedong also pointed out that the transitional period for China to transition to a socialist society will be a relatively long historical stage. How long this stage will be in time, Mao Zedong did not make it clear, but from Mao Zedong’s conclusions, it can be seen that it is not a short time. He stated: China's revolution "the first step is New Democracy," and "the time for this first step is quite long and cannot be achieved overnight." Therefore, during the transition period, a new state form and political form of alliance of several democratic classes will emerge politically for a quite long period. In terms of economics, after the victory of the revolution for a quite long time, it is necessary to as much as possible utilize the enthusiasm of urban and rural private capitalism to facilitate the forward development of the national economy. Liu Shaoqi also once said, "The time required for this transition will be much longer than in the Eastern European and Central European People's Democratic countries." Based on the understanding of the long-term nature of the transitional period, Mao Zedong also specifically emphasized the need to consolidate the New Democratic country and the arduousness and long-term nature jobs of consolidating the New Democratic country.


Thirdly, the new democratic state plays a very important role in the process of revolutionary transformation. Mao Zedong publicly stated: After the Chinese Communist Party has "completed the revolution of Chinese bourgeois democracy", it is prepared to "transform it to the stage of socialism when all necessary conditions are met". What are the conditions for this transformation? Mao Zedong believed that the new democratic state would play a very important role in this transformation process. He said: In China, "without a unified new democratic state, without the development of a new democratic national economy, without the development of private capitalist economy and cooperative economy, without the development of national, scientific, popular culture, i.e., new democratic culture, without the liberation and development of tens of millions of people's individualities, in short, without a thorough bourgeois democratic revolution led by the Communist Party, it would be a complete illusion to want to establish a socialist society on the ruins of a colonial, semi-colonial, semi-feudal society". Here, Mao Zedong put forward the conditions for the revolutionary transformation: ① there is a new democratic state power led by the proletariat, including various democratic classes; ② the full development of the new democratic economy; ③ the full development of new democratic cultural undertakings; ④ other necessary material preparations; and so on. And these conditions can only gradually form in the new democratic state, which shows the important role and position of the new democratic state in the revolutionary transformation.

The new democratic political doctrine laid the political foundation of the People's Republic of China. At the first plenary session of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference held in September 1949, the delegates, guided by new democratic political doctrine, formulated the Common Programme, which served as a temporary constitution. The Common Programme specifies that the nature of the People's Republic of China is "a state of new democracy or people's democracy", and it "practices the dictatorship of the people's democracy led by the working class, based on the alliance of workers and peasants, and uniting all democratic classes and all ethnic groups in the country". It has also stipulated a form of state power organization that is consistent with the people's democratic dictatorship, namely, the people's congress system based on the principle of democratic centralism. "The state power of the People's Republic of China belongs to the people. The organs for the people to exercise state power are the people's congresses and people's governments at all levels," and the state "implements democratic centralism in all organs of state power". It has also stipulated the forms of ownership of the new democratic state, "The People's Republic of China must abolish all the privileges of imperialist states in China, confiscate bureaucratic capital for the state ownership of the people, gradually change the feudal and semi-feudal land ownership into peasant land ownership, protect the public property of the state and the property of cooperatives, protect the economic interests and private property of workers, peasants, petty bourgeoisie and national bourgeoisie, develop the people's economy of new democracy, and steadily transform an agricultural country into an industrial country". In addition, it has also made provisions in military, diplomatic and other fields. The above stipulations about the specific content of the new democratic state are all reflections of the new democratic political doctrine.

Third, the understanding and application of new democratic economic thought

During the new democratic revolution, the Chinese Communists combined Marxist economic theory with the practice of Chinese revolution, revealed the historical characteristics of the economic system of Chinese semi-colonial and semi-feudal society, proposed the need to develop Chinese economy through new democratic forms, and formed the basic program of new democracy with Chinese characteristics and a relatively complete theoretical form. After the 840s, China gradually fell from a completely feudal society to a semi-feudal and semi-colonial society. Mao Zedong analysed that the result of imperialist aggression in China "on the one hand promoted the disintegration of Chinese feudal society, generated capitalist elements in China, and transformed a feudal society into a semi-feudal society; on the other hand, they brutally ruled China and transformed an independent China into a semi-colony and colony of China". Here, Mao Zedong correctly pointed out that China's semi-feudal and semi-colonial economic form was formed under imperialist aggression.



Due to the invasion of capitalist imperialism, China’s socio-economic form has undergone significant changes: on the one hand, in rural areas, the feudal economic form where landlords own most of the land is still maintained, but for China as a whole, the natural economy has disintegrated, turning a feudal society into a “semi-feudal” society. That is to say, another “half” appeared in the semi-feudal society, which is the emergence of capitalist production relations. By the 1920s, capitalist production relations developed into the dominant economic relations in the national economy. This is the economic basis of the New Democratic Revolution of a proletarian-led but bourgeois democratic nature. On the other hand, the so-called semi-colony is foreign invaders forcing the Chinese government to cede territory, pay indemnities, and lose part of its sovereignty politically through war. More importantly, economically forcing the Chinese government to raise foreign debts and use tariffs, salt taxes, lijin, etc. as collateral, thereby losing tariff autonomy, and adopting various means such as opening mines, building railways, building factories, and running banks in China to control China’s economic lifeline and make China a semi-colonial economic status. Faced with this social form, based on deep practical exploration and theoretical explanation, the Communist Party of China believes that the characteristics of the socio-economic form of a semi-feudal and semi-colonial society are as follows.
In terms of production relations, the natural economic foundation of self-sufficiency during the feudal era has been destroyed, but the basis of the feudal exploitation system-landlord class’s exploitation of farmers, not only maintains but also combines with comprador capital and usury capital, The advantage in the socio-economic life of old China is obvious. Capitalism has developed and played a significant role in China's political and cultural life, but its power is weak. Imperialism manipulated China’s finances and economic lifelines. Under the dual oppression of imperialism and feudalism, China’s vast people, especially farmers, are increasingly impoverished and bankrupt, and they are living in a life of extreme poverty and no political rights.
From the perspective of the level and distribution characteristics of productive forces, the productive forces of old Chinese society are very backward, and the structure presents a multi-level state. The output value of modern industry only accounts for about 10% of the total output value of the national economy. Among them, state monopoly capital (commonly known as bureaucracy capital) accounts for about 80% of the fixed assets of the country’s industry and transportation. Private capitalist industry ranks second in modern industry, and it is a force that cannot be ignored. Industrial workers only account for 0.6% of the population, about 3 million people, about 90% are scattered, individual agricultural economy and handicraft industry economy, this part is backward and there is not much difference from the ancient economy. Mao Zedong said that this productive situation is "the result of the oppression of the imperialism system and the feudalism system in China. This is the expression of the economic nature of old China's semi-colonial and semi-feudal society". The basic characteristics of the industrial distribution are concentrated in the northeast and the six coastal provinces. In these two regions, the land area accounts for 18% of the country, the population accounts for 42%, and the industrial output value accounts for about 80% of the country. Only Shanghai's industrial output value accounts for more than 25% of the country's total industrial output value. Mao Zedong pointed out: "Our country's industry was concentrated in coastal areas in the past... All of our country's light and heavy industries, about 70% are along the coast, and only 30% are inland. This is an unreasonable situation formed in history." The economic development is extremely unbalanced, "The weak capitalist economy and the severe semi-feudal economy coexist, several modern industries and a stagnant vast rural area coexist, millions of industrial workers and hundreds of millions of farmers and handicraft workers under the old system coexist... Some railways, air routes, motor vehicle roads and generally wheelbarrow roads, roads that can only be walked on foot, and roads that are not easy to walk, all coexist". The Communist Party of China's analysis of China's half-feudal and half-colonial economic form is the basis of the formation of the economic thought of New Democracy. The practice of the economy of New Democracy began during the period of the land revolution war, and after the Anti-Japanese War, it has been fully elaborated and practiced.



During the period of the Land Revolution War, the Party recognized the extreme importance of economic construction, and clearly pointed out that the economic construction of the base area is to serve the revolutionary war. It cannot be separated from the war to engage in economic work alone, but to ensure the material needs of the war, to ensure an adequate supply of soldiers, we cannot be separated from economic construction. In this regard, the Party began to form a series of distinctive economic policy principles.
The Party pointed out that our national economy is now composed of military camp industries, cooperative businesses, and private business. At present, state-owned economic enterprises are limited to possible and necessary parts. State-owned industries and commerce are also beginning to develop, although they currently hold a small proportion, but the future is limitless. As for private economies, as long as they do not fall outside the scope of government laws, they should not only be not obstructed, but should also be promoted and rewarded, because the development of private economies is needed for national interests, even though they currently have the absolute advantage, they will still dominate for a considerable time. For this reason, the Party has established the principle of the Party's economic policy, which is to carry out all possible and necessary construction on the economic side, to concentrate efforts to supply the war, while striving to improve the people's living conditions, to consolidate the alliance of workers and peasants on the economic side, to ensure the proletariat's leadership over the peasants, to strive for the state-owned economy's leadership over the private economy, and to create the premise for future development into socialism. This was in line with the demands of the level of production development and the transformation of production relationships in the base areas at that time. In 1935, the international and domestic situation changed, in order to get more people to join the national democratic revolutionary united front, Mao Zedong further required the whole Party to clarify its economic policy on capitalism. He pointed out in the "Strategy Against Japanese Imperialism" that "The People's Republic does not abolish non-imperialism and non-feudal private property during the bourgeois democratic revolution, nor does it confiscate the industry and commerce of the national bourgeoisie, but it encourages these industries and commerce. "In the stage of democratic revolution, the struggle between labor and capital is limited." The labour law of the People's Republic protects the interests of workers, but it does not oppose native capitalists making money, and it does not oppose the development of native industry and commerce, because such development is detrimental to imperialism and beneficial to the Chinese people. The implementation of this economic policy can cause political changes, expand the united front, and better complete the political tasks.
Under the guidance of the above economic policy principles, the Party pointed out that the central task of economic construction in the base areas is to develop agricultural production, promote industrial production, develop foreign trade, and develop cooperatives. Based on this standpoint, the Party proposed specific measures for economic construction. To develop agricultural production, the land issue must be solved, the feudal exploitation system and the solid foundation of production relations must be disintegrated, the peasants' land ownership rights must be established, and with the policy of encouraging agricultural production, the peasants' enthusiasm for production can be improved. On this basis, help farmers organize labor mutual assistance societies, farming teams, ploughing cattle cooperatives, to solve the problems of inadequate labor, livestock, and so on. Mao Zedong emphasized that, under current conditions, agricultural production is the first place in our economic construction work. At the same time, he criticized the previous overly "left" policy of complete confiscation and thorough distribution of land, arguing that this hurt the middle class in rural areas and was not conducive to the development of our Party's struggle in rural areas. For the development of industrial production, Mao Zedong emphasized planned development of handicraft industries and some industries, one is for self-sufficiency, and the other is for export. It requires efforts to develop foreign trade, open up markets inside and outside the Red Zone, adjust the surplus and deficiency. The party also attaches great importance to the development of the cooperative economy, thinking that the cooperative economy is the best economic form under the current level of productivity, it cooperates with the state-owned economy, and through long-term development it will become a huge economic force, gradually dominate private economy and obtain a leading position. 
Of course, during this period, the Party's exploration of the concept of New Democratic economy was preliminary, and the theory was not mature and complete, it did not use the scientific concept of "New Democratic economy", and it did not clarify the internal logical connection between the national economy and the unique historical stage of New Democracy.



The leap in understanding of the New Democracy economy occurred after the onset of the Anti-Japanese War. During the Anti-Japanese War era, Mao Zedong lucidly expounded the idea of the New Democracy economy in texts such as “The Chinese Revolution and the Chinese Communist Party”, “New Democracy”, “Economic and Financial Issues During the Anti-Japanese Era”, and “On the Joint Government”, marking the completion and structuring of the Party’s New Democracy economic theory.

Firstly, the concept of the "New Democracy Economy" was proposed. After systematically analyzing the characteristics of China's semi-feudal and semi-colonial society, the Party reaffirmed that the nature of the Chinese revolution at the current stage is still a bourgeois democratic revolution. But the bourgeois democratic revolution in China now is not an old-style generic bourgeois democratic revolution, but a new-style special bourgeois democratic revolution, that is, the New Democratic Revolution. This revolution requires establishing new democratic politics, economy, and culture. Mao Zedong stated: The Chinese Communist Party has been fighting for many years for the political, economic, and cultural revolution of China. The aim is to build a new society and a new nation of the Chinese people, and "to establish such a republic in China, it must be new democratic in politics and also new democratic in economics." This is because economic issues manifest themselves in political and cultural aspects. What is the content of the New Democracy economic revolution then? It is "to nationalize the big capital and big enterprises of imperialists and traitor reactionaries, to distribute the land of the landlord class to the farmers, to preserve ordinary private capitalist enterprises, and not to abolish the economy of the rich."

Secondly, the construction of the New Democracy economy must take the path of "capital restraint" and "equal land rights." The construction of the New Democracy economy must formulate guidelines and policies according to China's historical characteristics and economic conditions, and explore the correct path of development. China should neither blindly copy the Soviet model of economic development nor be identical to the capitalist economies of Europe and America, but should establish a new type of economic relationship. After emphasizing that large banks, large industries, and large commerce belong to the New Democratic country, Mao Zedong quoted the content related to the Nationalist Party's First Congress declaration, that is, "All domestic and foreign enterprises, either monopolistic in nature or too large to be operated by private forces, such as banks, railways, and water routes, should be managed by the state, so that the private capital system cannot manipulate the people's livelihood. This is the essence of capital regulation." He believed that this was the correct guideline for the economic composition of the New Democracy Republic. Regarding the policy towards capitalist economy, Mao Zedong clearly stated: After the victory of the New Democratic Revolution, it can be envisaged, and it is not surprising that the capitalist economy will develop to a considerable extent in Chinese society because the obstacles on the path of capitalist development have been cleared away. This is because the Chinese economy is still very backward. Therefore, the standard for confiscating capital is whether it can manipulate national economic and social welfare. At the same time, the development of state-owned economy and cooperative economy should be encouraged, gradually increasing their proportions, to provide economic guarantees to avoid the future development of capitalism. In rural areas, confiscate the landlords' land and distribute it to farmers with little or no land, implementing the principle of "those who work the land should own it", eliminating feudal relationships in rural areas, but allowing the existence of the rich peasant economy, which is the "equal land rights" policy. During the era of New Democracy, generally agriculture was not socialist, but various cooperative economies that developed on the basis of those who work the land owning it also had elements of socialism. The new production relationships established based on the principles of capital regulation and equal land rights were consistent with the development level of social productivity at the time, and this was also a concentrated expression of the consistency between Sun Yat-sen's Three Principles of the People and the Chinese Communist Party's New Democracy program.



Thirdly, the basic policy and correct approach to developing a New Democratic economy are discussed. The New Democratic economy consists of the state economy, the private economy, and the cooperative economy. Without the coordinated development of these three types of economies, it would be impossible for the Chinese people to build a socialist economy on a semi-feudal and semi-colonial foundation. Consequently, the Party has formulated several specific policies to develop the economy. In terms of labor policy, it employs a dual approach of modestly improving workers’ living conditions and not hindering the legitimate development of the capitalist economy, in order to balance labor-capital relationships and promote economic development. The land policy continues to adjust based on changes in the Party's central tasks at different times. From the "confiscation of all land" in the ten years of civil war, it transitioned to a dual policy during the war of resistance demanding landlords to reduce rents and interest, which positively united landlords and rich peasants to join the war of resistance against Japan. Regarding the policy towards private capitalism, Mao Zedong pointed out that while state and cooperative economies should be developed, in the current rural base areas, the main component of the economy is not state-owned, but privately owned. It gives free capitalist economies a chance to thrive in order to oppose Japanese imperialism and the semi-feudal system, which is currently the most revolutionary policy. He openly declared that Communists have a unique viewpoint on economic revolution: "Some people don't understand why Communists are not afraid of capitalism, but advocate its development under certain conditions. Our answer is simple: replace foreign imperialism and feudal oppression with a certain development of capitalism. It not only benefits the bourgeoisie but also the proletariat. Right now, China has one more foreign imperialist and one more feudal system, not one more native capitalist; on the contrary, we need more capitalism." Under China's unique historical conditions and the system of New Democracy, the general abolition of private property is not the aim, but rather the general protection of private property. Opposing capitalist thought within the Party while not opposing the capitalist elements in socio-economic contexts is paramount. After 1940, the War of Resistance bases and the Shaanxi-Gansu-Ningxia border area entered the most difficult times. To overcome these hardships, Mao Zedong prioritized economic development in the construction of border regions and base areas, believing that the War of Resistance was not only a political and military competition but more importantly an economic one. He proposed: "Develop the economy, ensure supplies, is our overall guideline for economic and financial work." Carry out large-scale civilian production initiatives, implement self-dependency, and abundant food and clothing. The correct way to develop the economy was proposed to be overcoming individual decentralized management and achieving collectivization, and the only way to achieve collectivization was through cooperatives as a form of production organization. It emphasized the need to develop heavy and light industries to create conditions for the transformation from an agricultural country to an industrial one. Especially the proposal of the standard of social productivity shows its theoretical depth and outstanding wisdom. He said, "The quality and magnitude of the role of the policies and practices of all parties in China among the Chinese people, ultimately, depend on whether they help the development of the productive forces of the Chinese people and the amount of help, whether they are shackling productivity or liberating productivity."

With the smooth progress of the Liberation War, the victory of the Chinese democratic revolution was only a matter of time. The Party deeply and systematically reflected on how to develop a New Democratic economy after the victory of the revolution, and fully elaborated on the economic program of New Democracy.

After long-term revolutionary struggles and constant summarization of experiences and lessons, Mao Zedong clearly put forward the three major economic programs of New Democracy in "The Current Situation and Our Tasks" in 1947, namely: "The confiscation of the land of the feudal class belongs to the peasants, the confiscation of the monopoly capital headed by Chiang Kai-shek, Soong Ziwen, Kong Xiangxi, and Chen Lifu belongs to the New Democratic state, and the protection of national industry and commerce."



"
Firstly, the confiscation of the landlords' lands to be owned by the peasants is the central content of the New Democratic Revolution and one of the basic economic programs of New Democracy. The peasant problem is the fundamental problem of the Chinese revolution and also the central issue for the proletariat to achieve leadership. The peasant problem, first and foremost, is the land problem. In semi-colonial and semi-feudal China, the feudal land system, where the landlord class cruelly exploited the peasants by occupying land, seriously hindered the development of rural productivity and was one of the root causes of China's poverty and backwardness. Therefore, launching land reform among the poor peasants, eliminating the feudal exploitation of the land system, and implementing "land to the tiller" was a major task of the New Democratic Revolution.
When a new historical stage arrived, the Party highly affirmed the land policy and land distribution methods, which were formulated according to reality during the land revolution period, that is: relying on poor and hired peasants, uniting middle peasants, restricting rich peasants, protecting small and medium-sized industrial and commercial entrepreneurs, eliminating the landlord class, and turning feudal land ownership into peasant land ownership; distributing land equally on a per capita basis at the village level, based on the original farmland, with more being subtracted from more abundant and less fertile land being compensated for. The Party also believed that during the Anti-Japanese War, to meet the requirements of uniting against Japan, the Chinese Communist Party's policy of confiscating the landlord class's lands and allocating them to peasants was changed to a policy of rent and interest reduction, which also made the Party's land policy conducive to actual development. Based on the rich practice and ideological accumulation of these two historical stages, on May 4, 1946, the CPC Central Committee issued "Instructions on the Land Issue," or the "May Fourth Instructions," changing the rent and interest reduction policy of the Anti-Japanese War period back to confiscating the landlord class's lands and allocating them to peasants, and implementing land reform in the liberated areas. The National Land Conference in 1947 formulated the first relatively complete New Democratic land program in the history of the Communist Party of China— "Outline of China's Land Law," which clearly stipulates that "the exploitative land system of feudalism and semi-feudalism should be abolished, and the land system of 'land to the tiller' should be implemented." At the Party's December Conference the same year, Mao Zedong summed up the experience of land reform, pointing out that the guideline for land reform was: "Rely on poor peasants, solidly unite middle peasants, and eliminate the feudal and semi-feudal exploitation system of the landlord class and the old-type rich peasants." Meanwhile, he emphasized the two basic principles that must be paid attention to in land reform: "First, the demands of poor peasants and hired peasants must be met; this is the most basic task of land reform; second, firm unity with middle peasants must be maintained; their interests should not be harmed."
In his speech at the expansion meeting of the Northwestern Field Army Front Committee in January 1948, Mao Zedong asked various local democratic governments to pay attention to the fact that in the process of land reform, landlords as a class should be eliminated, but as individuals, they should be protected. "The abolition of the private ownership of the landlord class does not mean that we do not need them as individuals. Landlords and old-type rich peasants constitute one-tenth of the rural population, a total of 36 million people nationwide. This is a labor force in society and a form of wealth. If we distribute a share of land and property to them and let them participate in productive labor, they can carry a litter, produce food, and pay public grain, which is beneficial to the state." Mao Zedong also pointed out that the purpose of defeating Chiang Kai-shek and eliminating the landlord class is "to economically destroy the feudal comprador production relations and liberate the shackled productive forces. In the countryside, it is to liberate the peasants, break the feudal land ownership system, implement thorough land equalization, transfer land ownership to the peasants, and enable the peasants to feel at ease to produce, and improve farming methods”."



In April of the same year, Mao Zedong, in his speech at the Jin-Sui Cadre Conference, clearly and completely defined the party's overall route and overall policy for land reform, which is “rely on the poor peasants, unite with middle peasants, gradually and differentially eliminate the feudal exploitation system, and develop agricultural production”. This line, guideline, and policy, maximally united and strived for all the forces that could be united in the countryside, represented the interests of the broadest masses in China's rural areas, ensured the smooth progress of land reform, liberated and developed rural productivity, consolidated the worker-peasant alliance, and laid the foundation and conditions for the victory of China's revolution and the realization of national industrialization.

Second, the confiscation of bureaucratic monopolistic capital for the ownership of the new democratic state is another important content in the economic program of the new democracy. Bureaucratic capital, represented by the four major families of Jiang, Song, Ji I, and Chen, formed in the later stage of the land revolution, and reached its peak during the Anti-Japanese War. The KMT's bureaucratic capital includes two parts: one is the state monopoly capital, which is all the capital of the country owned by the big landlords and the bourgeoisie represented by the four major families; the other is the private capital owned by the four major families and other bureaucrats and warlords. These two parts of capital monopolize the economic lifeline of the country, represent reactionary production relations, and are serious obstacles to China's economic and social development. To confiscate bureaucratic capital is to confiscate these two parts of capital.

The confiscation of bureaucratic capital has a dual revolutionary nature: on the one hand, bureaucratic capital is the feudal and comprador state monopoly capitalism, which is the economic foundation of the Kuomintang rule. Opposing bureaucratic capital is to oppose feudal and comprador capital, which has the nature of a new democratic revolution; on the other hand, to oppose bureaucratic capital is to oppose the big bourgeoisie, and to concentrate this immense power that controls the national economic lifeline into the hands of the new democratic state, become the main source of the state-owned economy of socialist nature, and create conditions for the socialist transformation. Therefore, the confiscation of bureaucratic capital also has the nature of a socialist revolution.

During the Liberation War, the Communist Party of China began to confiscate bureaucratic capital from the cities in the liberated northeastern region; after the three major battles, it basically confiscated the bureaucratic capital enterprises north of the Yangtze River; by the end of 1949, except for Taiwan, all the bureaucratic capital enterprises on the mainland had been taken over by the people's government, owned by the people's state. Completing the revolutionary task of confiscating bureaucratic capital has important significance: firstly, confiscating the bureaucratic capital in a dominant position allows the new democratic state to control the country's economic lifeline, making the state-owned economy the leading position in the national economy; secondly, the proletariat can use the economic power transformed from bureaucratic capital to consolidate the newly born People's Republic; finally, it laid the foundation for the transition to socialism by establishing a new democratic society and corresponding economic system.

Third, the protection of national industries and commerce is a very characteristic content in the economic program of the new democracy. As mentioned before, the Communist Party of China divides Chinese capitalism into bureaucratic capitalism and national capitalism, and adopts completely different policies. A protectionist policy is implemented for national capitalism, that is, under the conditions of new democracy, they allow the capitalist economy that does not manipulate the national economy and people's livelihood to develop.

Because we completed the transformation from new democracy to socialism too early in our actual work, and finished the transformation of national capitalism too early, and massively criticized capitalism after the mid-1960s, "cut off the tail of capitalism", and made a series of "leftist" errors, some people thought Mao Zedong has always been a "populist", a "utopian" .



However, in the process of the New Democratic Revolution, especially in the dispute over the "founding of the nation in 1949" after the Anti-Japanese War, only the Chinese Communists represented by Mao Zedong repeatedly declared that in the new democratic society, not only should we not be afraid of capitalism, but under certain conditions, we should advocate its development. All kinds of bourgeoisie dare not propose the development of capitalism. Only the Communist Party of China puts the protection of national industry and commerce and the development of capitalism beneficial to the national economy and the people's livelihood as its own economic program. It has conducted a profound analysis and criticism of the populist ideology within the party from the combination of theory and practice.

Mao Zedong pointed out: First, socialism must have socialized large-scale production as its solid material base. Whether or not to have this base "is where Marxism differs from populism". Second, the agricultural socialist thought advocating absolute egalitarianism on the issue of land distribution, which destroys industry and commerce, namely the so-called socialism based on small rural production advocated by populists, is "reactionary, backward, and retrogressive in nature. We must criticize this kind of thought". Third, this type of socialism not only protects backward small-scale production, but also inevitably defends feudalism and alienates socialism into despotism suppressing individual liberation. "If the bound personality is not liberated, there is neither democracy nor socialism". In short, the socialism advocated by populists is against the law of social development and is an utopian, reactionary thought.

Why should we protect national industry and commerce and allow the capitalist economy that does not manipulate the national economy and the people's livelihood to develop? Mao Zedong pointed out: First, "to replace the oppression of foreign imperialism and domestic feudalism with a certain development of capitalism, is not only a progress but also an inevitable process". Second, under certain conditions, the development of capitalism "is beneficial not only to the bourgeoisie but also to the proletariat, or even more beneficial to the proletariat. The present China has one more foreign imperialism and one more domestic feudalism, not one more domestic capitalism. On the contrary, our capitalism is too little". In summary, the development of capitalism under the new democratic regime is beneficial and harmless. "What we advocate is the capitalism of new democracy, which has its vitality and is still revolutionary", "Its nature is to help socialism, it is revolutionary, useful, and beneficial to the development of socialism".

The conception of a new democratic economic structure is the core of the new democratic economic theory and an important part of the party's new democratic social thought.

With the successive victories of the New Democratic Revolution and the implementation of the three major economic programs, the conception of the New Democratic economic structure gradually took shape. Mao Zedong's "On New Democracy" mentioned the economic structure of New Democratic society, pointing out: "The large banks, corporations, and businesses belong to the state of this republic... The state-run economy of the New Democratic Republic under the leadership of the proletariat is of a socialist nature and is the leading force in the entire national economy." "It does not confiscate other capitalists’ private property, and does not prohibit the development of capitalist production that cannot manipulate the national economy and the people's livelihood. This is due to the fact that China's economy is still very backward.” “Confiscate the land of the landlords... Transform the land into the private property of the peasants", "At this stage, in general, it is not about establishing socialist agriculture yet, but the various cooperative economies that develop on the basis of 'the tiller has its field' also have socialist elements".
"The richer economy of the rural areas is also allowed to exist". It is not hard to see that in the new democratic economic structure envisaged by Mao Zedong at the time, there were five economic components, namely the state-run economy, cooperative economy, private capitalist economy, individual economy, and the richer economy. This idea was further refined a few years later. In December 1947, Mao Zedong further clarified the economic components of New Democracy in his paper "The Current Situation and Our Tasks": "1) state-run economy, which is the leading component; 2) the agricultural economy gradually moving towards the direction of collectivization from the individual; 3) the economy of independent small industrial and commercial operators and small and medium-sized private capital economy.



"These are the entirety of the New Democracy's national economy." This division combines the individual economy and the rich peasant economy into the agricultural economy. Though it is simpler and more scientific than the classification in the "On New Democracy," it only includes the three economic components of the state-owned economy, private capitalist economy, and agricultural economy. This is obviously incomplete, and therefore, this theory still needs further development. The person to complete this development was Zhang Wentian. In July 1948, at a joint meeting of county organization department secretaries and propaganda department secretaries called by the Northeast Bureau of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, Zhang Wentian summarized his years of research and proposed the idea of six components of the new democratic economy: ① State-owned economy or public economy; ② State capitalism; ③ Private capitalism; ④ Petty commodity economy, primarily the peasant economy; ⑤ Co-operative economy; ⑥ Nomadic economy. This formulation, though not perfect and its exposition not thorough enough, nonetheless established a complete framework for the last proposal of the New Democracy economic structure. 

Two months later, based on his report at the Urban Work Conference of the Northeast Bureau of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, Zhang Wentian wrote a report to the central government titled, "Outline on the Composition and Basic Policy of Northeast Economy," explicitly proposing five components of the new democratic economy, namely "state-owned economy, co-operative economy, state capitalism, private capitalism, petty commodity economy (a small part of the natural economy is not significant, hence omitted)." This is the earliest and most complete exposition of the new democratic economy's composition. 

Zhang Wentian also fully discussed the nature, status, development direction, and interrelationships of these 5 types of economies: ① The state-owned economy is a socialist economy that holds a leading position in the national economy. ② The cooperative economy is of socialist qualities in varying degrees and is a reliable and powerful assistant to the state-owned economy. Only through a cooperative economy can agricultural collectivization be realized, enabling farmers to move from new democracy to socialism. ③ State capitalism, or capitalism "managed and supervised" by the new democratic state, is the form of private capitalism most advantageous to the development of new democracy. Therefore, we should consciously acknowledge the economic category of "state capitalism" and consciously promote and organize it. ④ Private capitalism is a capitalist economy. Given the backwardness of our national economy, the development of private capitalism is inevitable and necessary to a certain extent. However, it should not be allowed to develop unchecked, but must be managed and supervised within certain limits. ⑤ Petty commodity economy stands at a crossroads between capitalism and socialism. After a long period of education and struggle, under New Democracy led by the proletariat, it will develop towards socialism, but this requires "a longer transition period than Eastern European countries." Zhang Wentian believed: "Only by correctly understanding the nature, position, development direction and interrelationship of these five economies can we determine the starting point and basis for the economic policy in the Northeast. Only in this way can we grasp the correct line on the economic front and realize the correct leadership of the proletariat in the construction of the social economy." Zhang Wentian's scientific argument marked the real maturity of the new democratic economic structure and made its final formation possible a year later. 


The formal formation of this concept is marked by two important documents: Mao Zedong's report at the Second Plenary Session of the Seventh Central Committee of the Communist Party of China, and the Common Program of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (hereinafter referred to as the "Common Program") on the new democratic economic structure. 

Mao Zedong first discussed the extreme importance of making the state-owned economy the leading component of the entire national economy, then pointed out: "China's private capitalist industry...is a force that cannot be ignored... During this period, all urban and rural capitalist elements that are not harmful to the national economy but beneficial should be allowed to exist and develop..."


"This is not only inevitable, but also economically necessary." Regarding the dispersed individual economy, Mao Zedong believed that "it is possible and necessary to guide them cautiously, gradually and actively towards modernization and collectivization. The laissez-faire view is wrong." Mao Zedong also recognized the importance of the cooperative economy, saying: "Only the state-owned economy without the cooperative economy, we will not be able to guide the individual economy of the working people towards collectivization step by step, it will not be possible to develop from a new democratic society to a socialist society, and it will not be possible to solidify the leadership of the proletariat in state power." Finally, he summed up: "The state-owned economy is of a socialist nature, the cooperative economy is semi-socialist, plus the private capitalist economy, the individual economy, and the state-capitalist economy cooperated by the state and private individuals, these are the main economic components of the People's Republic. These constitute the new democratic economic form."

The "Common Program", which once played the temporary role of the constitution, undoubtedly has authoritative and legal validity in determining the economic structure of new democracy. The provisions about the economic structure of new democracy have put a successful end to the decades-long development process of this concept. The "Common Program" discusses the nature, role, status, and prospects of the five types of economic components allowed in the new democratic society, generally follows Mao Zedong's approach, and ultimately stipulates: The fundamental guideline for the economic construction of the People's Republic of China is to consider both public and private sectors, benefit both labor and capital, foster mutual aid between urban and rural areas, and promote domestic and international exchange. The goal is to enhance productivity and boost the economy. The state should adjust the state-owned economy, cooperative economy, individual economy of farmers and craftsmen, private capitalist economy, and state capitalist economy in terms of business scope, raw material supply, market sales, working conditions, technical equipment, fiscal policy, financial policy, etc., and let various social economic components cooperate under the leadership of the state-owned economy, each playing its part to stimulate the overall socio-economic development. This guideline and policy conform to the social realities created by China's history and revolution, help exploit the advantages of various economic components, and foster rapid socio-economic development.

Fourth, building a national, scientific, and popular new culture.

During the Anti-Japanese War, Mao Zedong successively published "New Democracy", "Reform Our Study", "On the Yan'an Forum on Literature and Art", "Art Workers Must Combine with Workers, Peasants and Soldiers", "The United Front in Cultural Work", "On the Coalition Government" and other articles. These articles expressed the Chinese Communist Party's understanding of cultural issues, systematically constructed the cultural thoughts of New Democracy, and formed the cultural program of New Democracy.

The Chinese Communist Party scientifically explains the historical inevitability of the emergence of New Democratic culture from the dialectical relationship between culture and politics and the economy. The Chinese Communist Party reveals the historical inevitability of the emergence of New Democratic culture from the background of the changes in social structure and cultural structure in China since the Opium War. Mao Zedong believed, starting from the Opium War in 1840, China gradually declined from an independent and complete feudal society to a semi-colonial and semi-feudal society. Changes in the social, political, and economic structure would inevitably lead to changes in culture and cultural structure. Prior to the Opium War, Chinese culture was a single feudal culture; after the Opium War, in addition to feudal culture, there were also imperialist servile culture and the newly emerged democratic culture of the national bourgeoisie. In other words, after the Opium War, the nature of Chinese social culture has changed from single to diverse. At this time, on the one hand, the old culture of feudalism continued to control the spiritual life of the Chinese people deeply; on the other hand, feudal culture coexisted and fought with servile culture and democratic culture. The uniqueness of the modern social development in China and the complexity of the renewal of thoughts and culture determined the multiplicity of the nature of modern Chinese social culture, which belonged to a multi-track culture.




In the contradictory evolution of China's modern multi-track culture, bourgeois democratic culture is a powerful force on the frontline of China's modern culture. They serve the purpose of the Chinese democratic revolution by challenging China's feudal culture and represent the direction of societal evolution in China. During the Hundred Days' Reform and the Xinhai Revolution, progressive Chinese people actively studied and promoted Western democratic culture and tried to mimic it to establish democratic culture in China. They used bourgeois democratic culture as a weapon to start a war against feudal culture, aiming to awaken people to revolutionize and strengthen the nation. Since the bourgeois democratic culture in China is not derived from the soil of its own feudal culture but transplanted from Western culture, its class basis is very small. China's feudal culture has a long history and has formed a firm national cultural psychological structure through dynastic feudal systems. The slave culture supported by imperialism is colluding with it to form a cultural alliance against bourgeois democratic culture. Therefore, in the face of confrontation, the bourgeois democratic culture can only enter the battle for a few rounds before being repelled by this reactionary alliance. Mao Zedong pointed out: "The old bourgeois democratic culture, in the era of imperialism, has decayed and become powerless. Its failure is inevitable." The new democratic culture was born under such historical conditions. This means that the bankruptcy of the old democratic culture and the emergence of the new democratic culture in the imperial era are the inevitable results of modern historical development. After the May Fourth Movement in 1919, the advanced proletariat came to China's historical stage with its firm and uncompromising anti-imperialist and anti-feudal spirit, exhibiting new and powerful political power, thus adding fresh content to modern Chinese society. The new cultural movement after the "May Fourth" quickly developed into a Marxist ideological movement. So, in China's modern multi-track culture, a new cultural content was injected, causing a historical turning point in the direction of modern culture. On the one hand, China's old democratic culture is riddled with holes and has been defeated repeatedly in its struggle against imperialist slave culture and feudal culture, yet it retains its progressiveness. On the other hand, it is true that China's old democratic culture is incapable of overthrowing feudal and slave cultures. Only the advanced proletarian new democratic culture guided by Marxism can overthrow feudal and slave cultures. The proletarian new democratic culture has gradually become the main force of China's modern cultural revolution.
The Communist Party of China has made it clear that the new democratic culture is the anti-imperialist and anti-feudal culture led by the proletariat, which is the most salient historical feature of the new democratic culture. Mao Zedong pointed out that the cultural or ideological front in China has formed two different historical periods around the "May Fourth". Before the "May Fourth", the struggle on China's cultural front was the struggle between the bourgeois new culture and the feudal old culture. Before the "May Fourth", the conflicts between schools and imperial examinations, new learning and old learning, Western learning and Chinese learning, all had this characteristic. The so-called schools, new learning, and Western learning of that time were basically the natural sciences required by the representatives of the bourgeoisie and their social political theories (basically, there were still a lot of feudal remnants in China). He believed that this so-called new learning has a revolutionary role in the struggle against Chinese feudal thought and serves for the Chinese bourgeois democratic revolution of the old era. However, due to the weakness of the Chinese bourgeoisie and the world had already entered the imperialist era, this bourgeois thought could only enter the battlefield for a few rounds, then was repelled by the reactionary alliance of foreign imperialist enslaving thoughts and Chinese feudal retrogressive thoughts. This philosophical reactionary alliance, with only a slight counter-attack, confesses so-called new learning capitulation, retreats, loses its spirit, and only leaves its shell.


Therefore, he concluded that the old bourgeois democratic culture, in the era of imperialism, has decayed and become powerless, and its failure is inevitable. This is not the case after the "May Fourth Movement". After the "May Fourth Movement", China gave birth to an entirely new cultural force, which is the cultural thought of communism led by the Chinese communists, that is, the cosmic view of communism and the theory of social revolution. As the era was after the First World War and the October Revolution, i.e., when the national question and the colonial revolution had changed the face of the world, this made the Chinese revolution closely linked to the world revolution. With China's new political force, namely the Chinese proletariat and the Chinese Communist Party, taking to the stage of Chinese politics, this cultural force, armed with new costumes and new weapons, united all possible allies, arrayed itself and waged a valiant attack on imperialist culture and feudal culture. This new force has made great strides in the fields of social sciences and literature and art, whether in philosophy, economics, political science, military science, history, literature, or art (be it drama, film, music, sculpture, or painting). The edge of this new cultural army, from ideas to forms (such as text), has brought about a great revolution. Its momentum is so great and its power is so fierce that it is practically invincible. Its mobilization is wider than any historical era in China. Therefore, Mao Zedong emphasized that before the "May Fourth Movement", China’s new culture was of old democratic nature, a part of the capitalist cultural revolution of the world bourgeoisie; after the "May Fourth Movement", China's new culture is of new democratic nature, a part of the cultural revolution of the world proletariat's socialism. Before the "May Fourth Movement", China's new cultural movement, and China's cultural revolution were led by the bourgeoisie, and they still had a leading role; after the "May Fourth Movement", the cultural thoughts of this class are more backward than their political ones, and they have no leading role; at most, they play the role of an ally to a certain extent during the revolution, as for the role of an alliance leader, it had to fall on the shoulders of proletarian cultural thought. This is an iron fact that no one can deny. Accordingly, Mao Zedong reached the conclusion: the so-called new democratic culture is the anti-imperialist and anti-feudal culture of the people; today, it is the culture of the anti-Japanese united front. This culture can only be led by the proletarian cultural thoughts, i.e., communist thoughts, and any other class's cultural thoughts cannot lead it. The so-called new democratic culture, in a word, is the proletarian-led anti-imperialist and anti-feudal culture of the people.
New democratic culture is the antithesis of proletarian socialist cultural thought leading the anti-imperialist and anti-feudal new democracy of the masses, which is the fundamental attribute of new democratic culture. Mao Zedong first criticized the bourgeois reactionary culture that was prevalent at the time, pointing out that the bourgeois reactionaries, on the question of culture, were as completely wrong as they were on the question of power. They do not know the historical characteristics of China's new period, they do not recognize the new democratic culture of the people. Their starting point is bourgeois authoritarianism, culturally it is bourgeois cultural authoritarianism. A section of the so-called Western culture people, they had actually sponsored the Kuomintang government's cultural "annihilation of the Communists", and now seem to be sponsoring some kind of "limit the Communists", "dissolve the Communists" policy. They are unwilling to let workers and peasants stand up politically, nor do they want them to stand up culturally. The culture of the capitalist diehards, the path of cultural despotism, is not viable, like the question of power, it does not have domestic or international conditions. Therefore, this cultural despotism, is also best to be "withdrawn".



Next, he criticized the erroneous view that the leadership of the New Democratic Revolution simply belongs to the proletariat, and therefore, the New Democratic culture is also of a socialist nature. He pointed out: As a guideline for national culture, it is communist thought that occupies a guiding position, and we should strive to propagate socialism and communism among the working class, and step by step, appropriately, use socialist education for peasants and other masses. However, the whole national culture is not yet socialist. The politics, economy, and culture of the New Democracy, because they are led by the proletariat, all have socialist elements, and not just ordinary elements, but decisive factors. However, in terms of the overall political situation, the overall economic situation, and the overall cultural situation, they are not socialist, but New Democratic. This is because the main task of the current stage of revolution is to oppose foreign imperialism and domestic feudalism, it is a bourgeois democratic revolution, and it is not a socialist revolution aimed at overthrowing capitalism. In terms of national culture, if one thinks that the current national culture is or should be a socialist national culture, this is incorrect. This is the propagation of the communist ideological system, which has been regarded as the practice of the current action program; the observation of problems, research, handling of work, and training of cadres from the position and method of communism, as the guideline for the whole national education and national culture during the stage of the Chinese Democratic Revolution. A national culture with socialism as its content must reflect socialist politics and economy. We have socialist elements politically and economically, which are reflected in our national culture as well. But as a whole society, we have not yet formed such an overall socialist political and economic system, so we can't have such an overall socialist national culture. The current Chinese Revolution is part of the world proletariat socialist revolution, and therefore, the current new culture of China is also part of the new culture of world proletarian socialism, it is a great ally; this part, although it contains significant elements of socialist culture, but in terms of the entire national culture, it does not participate purely with the qualifications of socialist culture, but with the qualifications of the New Democratic culture of the people's anti-imperialist and anti-feudal revolution. Since the current Chinese Revolution cannot do without the leadership of the Chinese proletarian culture, the current new culture of China also cannot do without the leadership of Chinese proletarian cultural thought, that is, the leadership of communist thought. But this leadership, at the current stage, is leading the masses to carry out an anti-imperialist and anti-feudal political and cultural revolution, so the content of the new national culture as a whole is still New Democratic, not socialist. At present, unquestionably, we should expand the propaganda of communist thought, intensify the study of Marxism-Leninism, without this propaganda and study, not only can we not lead the Chinese revolution to the future stage of socialism, but we also cannot direct the current democratic revolution to victory. However, we should distinguish between the propaganda of the communist ideological system and the socialist system, and the practice of the New Democratic action program; and also distinguish between the communist theory and method for observing problems, studying academys, handling work, training cadres, and the New Democratic guideline for the entire national culture. It would be highly inappropriate to conflate the two.

Based on the above analysis, Mao Zedong pointed out that, at the current stage, the content of China's new national culture is neither bourgeois cultural authoritarianism nor purely proletarian socialism, but New Democracy of the People's Anti-imperialist and Anti-feudal Revolution led by proletarian socialist cultural thought.

Based on the status of China's social, political, and economic development, on the basis of building a New Democratic society, Mao Zedong proposed the basic content of building a New Democratic culture. 

Mao Zedong pointed out that the New Democratic culture is firstly national, "It is against imperialist oppression, advocates the dignity and independence of the Chinese nation. It belongs to our nation, with our national characteristics."


Mao Zedong has always emphasized that Chinese culture must have its own distinctive characteristics of the Chinese nation and should have its own form, which is the national form, because "it is of our nation". Mao advocated that Chinese culture should have a national form and a New Democratic content, but he did not simply "favor new and despise old", instead, he particularly emphasized that Chinese culture should have historical continuity, for he revered that the source and root of the national culture he favored lies in traditional Chinese culture. Emphasizing the independence of the Chinese nation in cultural development is based on emphasizing the themes of the imperialist and proletarian revolutionary era, it is also a full recognition of the political and cultural struggle against imperialism in China since modern times. At the same time, Mao believed that, in the sense of world revolution, emphasizing the national characteristics of cultural development does not imply establishing a narrow nationalist closed culture, on the contrary, the construction of the new culture of the Chinese nation should be open and unite with the socialist cultures and the new democratic cultures of other nations in the world to establish a mutually absorbing and mutually developing relationship, together forming the world's new culture, which is the revolutionary national culture.

Mao Zedong linked national culture with the development of world culture, this thought greatly strengthened the foundation and future of the development of China's New Democratic culture. In "The Position of the Communist Party of China in the National War", he criticises the practice of individuals who do not understand internationalism, who separate internationalist content and national form. He believes that Chinese culture should "unite with all other nations' socialist cultures and new democratic cultures to establish a mutually absorbing and mutually developing relationship, together forming the world's new culture." He advocates for "absorbing more fresh foreign things, not only absorbing their progressive reasonings, but also absorbing their new expressions." We should absorb what we need from foreign languages. Mao pointed out: "China should absorb a great deal of foreign progressive culture as raw material for its own cultural food; this work is not yet sufficient." Mao believes that not only current socialist and new democratic cultures, but also foreign ancient cultures, such as the culture of the enlightenment era of capitalist countries, anything that we need today, should be absorbed. He sees New Democratic culture as the result of absorbing the spiritual wealth of not only China but also all of humanity, Mao maintained the dialectical and synthetic cultural standpoint of early Chinese Marxists, and truly clarified in theory the exploration of the issue of Chinese cultural development started by people like Li Dazhao and Chen Duxiu, an important link in historical development was completed.

Here, Mao proposed a famous principle: "All foreign things, just like our food, must pass through our own mouth-chewing and gastrointestinal movement, mix into saliva gastric juice intestinal juice, decompose it into essence and chaff, and then excrete the chaff, absorb its essence, then it can be beneficial to our body, we must not swallow it live without any criticism." This is not only a historical summary of the experience of the Chinese revolution, but also a correct grasp of the direction of the new cultural movement since the May Fourth Movement. In the article "Against Party 'Eight-legged Essays'", Mao criticised the formalism of the May Fourth Movement. He pointed out that many leaders of the May Fourth Movement lacked the critical spirit of Marxism, and the methods they used were generally bourgeois methods, that is, formalistic methods. 

"They opposed the old 'eight-legged essays' and old dogmas, advocated science and democracy, which was very right. But in their views of the current situation, history, and foreign things, they lacked the critical spirit of historical materialism. What they called bad was absolutely bad, all was bad; what they called good was absolutely good, all was good. This formalistic way of seeing things affected the development of this movement." Dogmatism and "total westernization" are the "left" and "right" ends of this formalistic concept.


Mao Zedong specifically mentioned the detrimental effects of formalism on the Chinese Communist movement and propagation of Marxism. He pointed out that the fundamental principles of Marxism must be fully and appropriately unified with the concrete practice of the Chinese revolution, "that is to say, it would only be useful when combined with national characteristics and subject to specific national forms, rather than subjectively or formulaically applied". "Formulaic Marxism" is undoubtedly a subjective and dogmatic form of Marxism that commences from a "canonical" and "textual" standpoint, assuming a far "left" facade and inflicting tremendous losses on the Chinese revolution. Mao Zedong pointed out that not only should the Chinese Revolution oppose "formalistic Marxism", but Chinese culture should also have its own form, that is, a national form. "National form, content of new democracy - this is our new culture today."

Next, New Democratic Culture is scientific, "It opposes all feudal and superstitious thought, advocates seeking truth from facts, advocates objective truth, and advocates the consistency of theory and practice." 

Inheriting the spirit of promoting scientific rationality since the "May 4th" movement, Mao Zedong pointed out that in the cause of anti-imperialism and anti-feudal superstition, the scientific thinking of the Chinese proletariat can establish a united front with materialists and natural scientists from the still progressive bourgeoisie in China to complete the enlightenment work since the "May 4th" movement. Here, Mao Zedong proposed scientific methodological principles for treating historical cultural heritage. First, Mao Zedong made this judgment on the nature of Chinese historical culture: "China's long-term feudal society has created a brilliant ancient culture." Therefore, when clearing up the legacy of ancient culture, you have to "eliminate its feudal dross, absorb its democratic essence". This is a necessary condition for developing the new culture of the Chinese nation and enhancing national self-confidence. Second, this kind of cleaning work cannot be indiscriminately inclusive without criticism. It is necessary to distinguish between the decayed things of the ancient feudal ruling class and the excellent ancient people's culture that has a certain degree of democracy and revolutionary nature. Third, we cannot sever history, because China's new culture at present comes from the development of ancient culture, so we should respect our own history. "But this kind of respect, is to give history a scientific status, is to respect the development of dialectics of history, not to praise the past and not the present, not to praise any feudal poison." Applying Marxist standpoints, views, and methods, Mao Zedong has transcended the "May 4th" era's debate on the cultures of "both ancient and modern times and both Eastern and Western cultures", and solved the methodological principle of cultural inheritance. Undoubtedly, this principle is both the inevitable result of the dialectic integrated cultural stance held by Li Dazhao and other early Chinese Marxists and a summary of the regularity of Chinese cultural historical movement.

On creating a new culture, Mao Zedong believes that it can only be maintained by adhering to practicality. He pointed out in his December 1936 "On the Strategic Issues of the Chinese Revolutionary War": "Reading is learning, using is also learning, and it's even more important." This presents his methodology of learning from application. In the "Rectification of the Party's Style of Work", he called on the whole party to "learn to apply the standpoints, viewpoints and methods of Marxism-Leninism, study China's history earnestly, study China's economics, politics, military and culture". Because, "for the theory of Marxism, it must be proficient and applicable, and the aim of proficiency is entirely for the purpose of application."

To always maintain the progressiveness of new culture, Mao Zedong believes that the progressiveness of cultural effects is reflected in the fact that culture should represent the direction of social development, represent the interests of the advanced class, and should play a role in promoting the development and progress of society. He clearly stated in "On New Democracy": "To turn China, which has been dominated by old culture and therefore is backward and ignorant, into a China that is dominated by new culture and therefore is civilized and advanced." "Establish a new culture for the Chinese nation, that is our purpose in the field of culture." Because of this, he fully affirmed the great significance of the May Fourth New Culture Movement thoroughly and uncompromisingly opposing imperialism and feudalism, because it is in line with the tasks of the Chinese democratic revolution against imperialism and feudalism in modern times, and it heralds the prelude to the New Democratic Revolution in China.



Finally, the new democratic culture is a culture of the masses. Mao Zedong pointed out that it should serve the labouring masses who make up more than 90% of the whole nation and gradually become their culture. The knowledge of educating revolutionary cadres and the knowledge of educating the revolutionary masses should be distinguished and connected in terms of level, also improving and popularizing should be distinguished and connected. This is another vivid manifestation of the party's "seek truth from facts" ideological line. On the one hand, cultural construction should serve the fundamental purpose of the revolution, on the other hand, cultural construction has laid the ideological and cultural foundation for the revolution. In the direction of cultural construction, the party emphasized that democracy should be linked with cultural construction, thereby reversing the one-sidedness of the cultural movement, making it truly penetrate into society, into the workers and peasants, and become a bottom-up social cultural revolution. Therefore, the party pointed out that mass, democratic culture does not mean indiscriminate application of the same pattern, method, content for cultural education for all objects. Mao Zedong believed that two distinctions and connections should be noted: distinguishing and connecting the knowledge of educating revolutionary cadres and the knowledge of educating revolutionary masses in terms of degree; and distinguishing and connecting improvement and popularization. Mao Zedong's thoughts are clearly expounded in his "Talks at the Yan'an Forum on Literature and Art". He believes that the premises and foundations of popularization and improvement should all be the masses of workers and peasants, because "our art and literature are basically for the workers, peasants and soldiers, so what we call popularization is to popularize among the workers, peasants and soldiers, and what we call improvement is to improve from the workers, peasants and soldiers". He pointed out that popularization is the foundation, improvement is the development. "Improvement should be emphasized, but it is wrong to emphasize improvement to an inappropriate degree by focusing on it in a one-sided and isolated way." This wrong view neglected the actual ideological and cultural status of the Chinese working masses and failed to recognize the tasks faced by popularization and improvement. Because "what is popularized is relatively simple and easy to understand, it is therefore more easily accepted by the vast majority of people at present"."So under current conditions, the task of popularization is more urgent." Mao Zedong emphasized that popularization is more important and urgent, it does not mean the neglect of improvement, he believes the two cannot be completely separated. Because popularization needs development, popularization will also constantly improve the ideological culture of the masses of workers and peasants, and thus not satisfied with the simple popularization and demand improvement. For this reason, "popularization not only does not hinder improvement, but provides a basis for the current limited scope of improvement, and prepares necessary conditions for the future broad scope of improvement". Mao Zedong distinguished improvement into two types, one is the improvement for the masses; the other is the improvement for cadres. The connection of the two improvements is that they are both for the masses, and the distinction lies in the level of education, therefore he proposed that literature and art should "both have advanced art needed by the masses who have been elevated, or first needed by cadres in the masses, developed from the elementary artistic basis, and elementary art which is often most urgently needed by the greatest number of people today under the guidance of such advanced art". 
The mass new democratic culture, for the masses of the people, should also be a powerful weapon of revolution. The party pointed out that revolutionary culture, before the revolution, is the ideological preparation for revolution; during the revolution, it is a necessary and important front in the total front of the revolution. And the workers of revolutionary culture are the commanders at all levels on this cultural front. "Without revolutionary theory, there will be no revolutionary movement", it shows how important the revolutionary cultural movement is to the revolutionary practice movement. And this cultural movement and practice movement are both of the masses. Therefore, all progressive cultural workers, during the Anti-Japanese War, should have their own cultural army, and this army is the masses of the people. A revolutionary cultural person who does not get close to the people is a "commander without soldiers", whose firepower cannot defeat the enemy.


To achieve this goal, textual reform must be carried out under certain circumstances, and language must be brought closer to the people, for the people are the infinitely rich source of revolutionary culture. 
The establishment of the New Democratic Culture Program marks an important theoretical link in the process of sinicization of Marxism, finding the basic direction of Chinese cultural development in the historical thread of China's cultural revolution since modern times. It both opposes national nihilism and distinguishes from narrow nationalism, opposing the "left" and right-leaning erroneous tendencies, laying a theoretical foundation for the development of Chinese culture.

