Chapter One: Waiting for a new period of reform and the resumption and re-establishment of the correct route 
I. Birth of political reconciliation atmosphere in hesitant progress 
During the transition from 1976 to 1978, the political reconciliation atmosphere was mainly realized through the restoration of Deng Xiaoping's leadership, the resumption of college entrance examination system, and the reversal of Tiananmen incident.
1. Restoration of Deng Xiaoping's leadership and reversal of Tiananmen incident 
After the disintegration of "Gang of Four", although the political forces supporting the "Cultural Revolution" were overthrown from the highest level of the central government, the party and national leadership that was related to the future and fate of China after the "Cultural Revolution" did not yet achieve decisive progress.
Before Mao Zedong's death, Hua Guofeng was appointed to succeed him, and subsequently served as Chairman of the Communist Party of China, Chairman of the Central Military Commission, and Premier of the State Council. Relying on the Central Politburo, he executed the will of the people and took decisive measures to crush the "Gang of Four," thereby ending the "Cultural Revolution." During the process of crushing the "Gang of Four," Hua Guofeng played a significant role, given his position in the central leadership core. The masses were thrilled and celebrated together.
At the outset of the decimation of the "Gang of Four," Hua Guofeng took steps to reveal and criticize the "Gang of Four" in order to solve problems and stabilize the situation, earning the support of the Party and the public. The nation began to thoroughly investigate the "Gang of Four" and their factions in various regions, restoring normal production and work orders, and working to revitalize the national economy, which yielded noticeable results. However, there was a conflicting issue that was not resolved very well at the time: on one hand, they were exposing and criticizing the "Gang of Four," and on the other hand, they were keen on limiting the rectification of the damage caused by the radical left line of the "Gang of Four," especially not allowing to touch on Mao's late-year mistakes. This effectively slowed the rectification of miscarriages of justice during the "Cultural Revolution," and some major issues were obstructed.
As early as October 26, 1976, Hua Guofeng spoke to heads of central propaganda departments, stressing that all Mao's teachings and remarks should not be criticized. On November 18, Wang Dongxing mentioned at the Central Propaganda Work Conference that Mao had already made a decision on the issue with Deng Xiaoping, and that anything Mao had discussed and indicated could not be wrong. On February 7, 1977, the editorial "Learning Documents Well and Grasping Essentials" indicated the two guidelines to follow: adhere to any decision made by Chairman Mao and follow any instruction given by him. Furthermore, there were strong calls for Deng Xiaoping to return to his work and for the April 5th Movement, in which the public mourned for Zhou Enlai and denounced the "Gang of Four," to be rehabilitated. Given the public sentiment, Hua Guofeng declared that "Deng Xiaoping will resume his work at the right time." In July 1977, the Tenth Central Committee of the Communist Party decided to restore Deng Xiaoping's work and position. 
The April 5th Movement needed to be redressed after Deng Xiaoping's reinstatement. However, the political status of the participants of the April 5th Movement in Tiananmen Square, who were suppressed with Deng Xiaoping, remained unclear. Thus, there was a spontaneous movement among the public to rectify the Tiananmen Incident. The efforts of the society led to the eventual rectification of the Tiananmen Incident. 
Until November 14, 1978, with the approval of the CPC Central Committee, the expanded meeting of the CPC Beijing Municipal Committee officially passed the decision to rehabilitate the Tiananmen incident, and it was announced in the Beijing Daily on the 15th: "On the Qingming Festival in 1976, the masses went to Tiananmen Square to mourn our beloved Premier Zhou, entirely due to their boundless love, nostalgia, and deep sadness for Premier Zhou, fully reflecting their deep hatred for the heinous crimes of the 'Gang of Four'. It reflects the aspirations of hundreds of millions of people in the country, and is entirely a revolutionary action. Those comrades persecuted because of this should be vindicated and their reputations restored." However, such a nationwide incident merely publishing the rehabilitation decision in local newspapers is clearly not enough.
Zeng Tao, president of Xinhua News Agency, Hu Jiwei, editor-in-chief of People's Daily, and Yang Xiguang, editor-in-chief of Guangming Daily, sharply noticed this report, extracted this paragraph from the article and released it as a separate news story, with the headline "CPC Beijing Municipal Committee announces 'Tiananmen incident' is a revolutionary action", which instantly elevated the significance of the news. It is worth mentioning that when Xinhua issued this news, it did not seek approval from the Central Politburo or report to any of its standing members. Afterwards, even Hu Yaobang said to Hu Jiwei: "You didn't notify me about such an important matter?" Zeng Tao and others at the time thought it was better not to ask for instructions and let Xinhua take responsibility. Everyone appreciated Zeng Tao’s courage and determination.
After the discussion by the Standing Committee of the Central Committee, Hua Guofeng announced at the Central Working Conference then in session on behalf of the Central Committee: "The Tiananmen incident is a completely revolutionary mass movement and should fully and openly redress the Tiananmen incident." Since then, the "Tiananmen incident" has finally been vindicated.
2. Beginning to Redress Individual Miscarriages of Justice
During the "Cultural Revolution" period, it led to a large number of miscarriages of justice, involving a considerable social group within and outside the party nationwide who were wronged but denied justice, whose basic political rights, working rights and basic livelihoods were not guaranteed. Therefore, after the downfall of the "Gang of Four", the most direct and urgent call of the whole society was to quickly redress the miscarriages of justice. This became a fervent hope and strong desire for all social strata including the heavily persecuted leaders at all levels.
In July 1977, the Third Plenary Session of the Tenth CPC Central Committee decided to restore Deng Xiaoping's leadership, indicating an obvious political rationality. The political report at the Eleventh Party Congress in August pointed out: "Remaining issues from past cadre reviews should be handled seriously and promptly. Those who are able to work but haven't been assigned jobs should be offered work without delay. Older and weaker members unable to work should also be well taken care of. For the minority who need conclusions from the review, it should be done as soon as possible. The slanders imposed by the 'Gang of Four' should be debunked." These important signals marked the starting point for further historical clarifications. In the hearts of those unliberated, the light of hope for their own, or familial and kinship, fate and future began to ignite, and it burned brighter and brighter.
Hu Yaobang, then the standing deputy principal of the CCP Central Party School, had been pondering on how to speed up the redress of miscarriages of justice and implement cadre policies. On October 7, 1977, the People's Daily published an article titled "The cadre line reversed by the 'Gang of Four' should be corrected", which was written with the support of Hu Yaobang. The article pointed out that some comrades, especially those working as cadres, due to the influence of the "Gang of Four", have not been effective in implementing the party's cadre policy, a major issue. As a result, some cadres who are aware of the line and capable of working have not been assigned jobs, many cadres under review have not received correct conclusions, and some bad elements mixed in the cadre team have not been dealt with. These all indicate that implementing the party's cadre policy is still a serious battle task.
The article emphasizes the courage to break through resistances and overthrow the slanderous words and incorrect conclusions imposed by the "Gang of Four" on many cadres. This article has caused widespread social resonance, and the central relevant departments received more than 10,000 letters from cadres and the masses within more than a month, all expressing agreement with the viewpoints and measures proposed in the article. The People's Daily also continued to publish commentaries on the implementation of cadre policies, excerpted some letters from the masses, and reported on the implementation of cadre policies in some areas. This further stirred people's emotions to rehabilitate grievances, and they strived to resolve the issue as soon as possible through various forms such as petitions and appeal letters.
However, the implementation of cadre policies and the work of redressing unjust, false and wrong cases still encounter significant resistance. On the one hand, in the organization departments of the central and some regional units, there are people from the "Gang of Four" or those influenced by them who always find various excuses to shirk and fail to seriously implement the party's cadre policy. On the other hand, many people are still fearful and worried that addressing the lingering issues in the review of cadres, especially correcting those wrong cases, will negate the achievements of the "Cultural Revolution". A typical example is former Shandong Provincial Party Secretary Shu Tong went to the Central Organization Department to request the implementation of policies and job allocation, but was blocked by the head of the Organization Department at the time, who even refused to let him stay at the Organization Department's guest house. There were more than 6,000 cadres like Shu Tong who were "hung up" and "sidelined" in central and national organs. They kept petitioning, but all to no avail.
This incident greatly affected Hu Yaobang, and it reaffirmed his determination to push for the implementation of cadre policies. "If we don't go to hell, who will", borrowing a line from Dante's Divine Comedy, Hu Yaobang said: "Our saying is: If we don't go into the frying pan, who will!" We are at a crucial moment of resisting a new force of typhoon. Since we have taken a firm step, we will never retreat and strive to expand the breakthrough that has been opened. Hu Yaobang analyzed that it seems that to really solve the cadre problem, we still have to go through many difficulties, and we need to make up our minds and break through one after another. He organized Comrades from the Central Party School to write the second manifesto: "Chairman Mao's Cadre Policy Must Be Seriously Implemented", condemning behaviors similar to stubbornly adhering to the wrong organizational line.
At this time, veteran comrades like Ye Jianying, Deng Xiaoping, and Chen Yun also believed that the leadership of the organization department must be strengthened, some organization departments must be adjusted and replenished, and they strongly recommended Hu Yaobang to serve as the head of the Central Organization Department.
Hu Yaobang took office at the Central Organization Department on December 15, 1977. At 8 o'clock in the morning, the crowd in the courtyard of the Organization Department was excited, firecrackers were launched, and all the staff sincerely welcomed the arrival of the new minister. This lively scene reflects the strong desire of the vast number of cadres and the masses to completely redress unjust, false and wrong cases. Afterwards, the number of visits and letters to the Organization Department increased daily. In January 1978, there were up to several hundred visitors a day, and appeal letters up to six sacks. Some letters even directly wrote Hu Yaobang's name.
With the support of veteran comrades such as Deng Xiaoping and Chen Yun, Hu Yaobang, who joined the Chinese Workers' and Peasants' Red Army at the age of 14, bravely broke through the various restrictions and taboos set by the "two whatevers", and vigorously organized and led the Central Organization Department to implement cadre policies and redress a series of urgent tasks of unjust, false and wrong cases.
At the first work meeting after joining the Central Organization Department, Hu Yaobang proposed that it is the inescapable responsibility of the organization department to redress wrongful cases and implement cadre policies. He said: Only during the "Cultural Revolution", major cases such as the Tiananmen Incident, the "61 people" issue, the Peng Dehuai Case, the Tao Zhu Case, the Wang Renzhong Case, the Inner Mongolia "Inner Party" issue, northeast's so-called "Traitor Group" issue, Xinjiang Ma Mingfang and other "Traitor Group" issues, the supposed "counter-revolutionary" cases of pleading for Liu Shaoqi and "viciously attacking the great leader", "viciously attacking Deputy Commander Lin", were beheaded, and it was unclear how many victims were involved. Before the "Cultural Revolution", there were successive political movements, and some wrongful cases before the founding of the New China, including wrongful cases in the Central Soviet Area in the 1930s, were referred to as "a mountain of accumulated cases", and the current situation of the Organization Department is "difficult to step forward".
Hu Yaobang clearly stated that to clear up and implement policies for the wrongful cases since the founding of New China and during the "Cultural Revolution" is the primary task of the organizational department. As for the historical issues left over before the founding of New China, whether they were not resolved or not completely resolved due to historical conditions or the impact of war, we should also resolve them completely. No matter how difficult it is, we must have the determination to "surmount the top". He also greeted the people present: If old comrades who have suffered injustices come to me in the future, I will meet and talk with them, please do not stop anyone; all envelopes written with "Hu Yaobang", please send them to me in time, if there is no expression from me, I hope no one will take the initiative to handle it, and even less withhold it.
According to statistics, the Organization Department of the Central Committee received 391,363 cases in 1730 volumes at that time, and 669 senior cadres were examined. Among them, 320 people were identified as having serious problems or contradictions between us and the enemy, accounting for 47.8% of the total number of people who were re-examined. Among these people, 213 were deputy ministerial level cadres, 71 were members and alternate members of the Central Committee, 10 were members of the Central Politburo, 10 were members of the Central Secretariat, and 7 were deputy premiers.
From March to April 1978, Hu Yaobang organized and instructed the Organization Department to hold workshops on difficult cases in the central, state organs and some provinces, autonomous regions, and municipalities directly under the Central government. He personally participated in the discussion or made a speech, proposed handling opinions on hundreds of long dragging and unresolved difficult cases, divided policy boundaries, and proposed four standards for implementing cadre policies: (1) those without conclusions, Make conclusions as soon as possible, if the conclusions are incorrect, they should be realistically corrected; (2) those who have not been assigned work should be properly assigned work, and those who are old and invalid should be properly arranged; (3) those who have passed away should make realistic conclusions and do a good job of carrying out the aftermath; (4) Resolve the family members and children who are implicated. The overall policy is to seek truth from facts, and the method is the mass line.
Under the leadership of Hu Yaobang, the Organization Department has issued more than forty guiding documents and published more than a dozen articles in newspapers to liberate cadres and redress wrongful cases. It has published nearly 100,000 words of policy reviews in more than 30 issues on the "Organization Work Newsletter". During his days in the Organization Department of the Central Committee, Hu Yaobang was busy dealing with all kinds of incoming letters almost every day. On average, he dealt with 33 appeal letters from deputy hall and county committee secretary-level cadres every day, and the most one-day processed 200 letters. According to a cadre in the Organization Department, in this year alone, Hu Yaobang approved 902 letters for the Cadre Review Bureau to handle. Thanks to the unremitting efforts and meticulous work of Hu Yaobang and his comrades in the Organization Department, a considerable number of middle and high-level cadres' issues have been resolved and arrangements have been made for their work and life.
As Hu Yaobang said: "One justified wrongful case, the people are overjoyed." By July 1978, 5,344 cadres in the central and state organs had been assigned and arranged according to policy, accounting for 87.2% of the original awaiting distribution in the 53 units of the central and state organs, playing a leading role in liberating thinking and rectifying chaos. By August, among the principal leaders of 20 provinces, autonomous regions, and municipalities, 9 were found to have connections with the "Gang of Four" and were removed from office. This represents approximately a third of all primary leaders in these areas. The central government also made major changes to the leadership teams of 14 provinces, autonomous regions, municipalities, and 23 ministry-level executive departments. These changes played a crucial role in ensuring the stability of the situation, the recovery and development of the national economy, and the promotion of the struggle to expose, criticize, and investigate malpractice. 
3. Reinstatement of College Entrance Examination (Gaokao) providing equal development opportunities for the Youth 
On October 21, 1977, The People's Daily published news about the resumption of the college entrance examination under the eye-catching headline "Admission to University Is the Hope of the All People". The reinstatement of the "Gaokao" marked the beginning of the reform and development of Chinese education in a new historical era, and was also the prelude to the magnificent opening up reforms in the 1980s. By the end of that year, tens of thousands of educated youth took part in the examination. They carried years of accumulated knowledge from grassroots labor and had only prepared by briefly and hurriedly reviewing. Hearts filled with anxious excitement, they participated in and witnessed the first Gaokao after the "Cultural Revolution" that would change the era and the fate of a generation. That year, a total of 5.7 million people nationwide registered for the Gaokao, with an unprecedented age range from 37 down to 13. However, only around 272,000 were admitted. It was the most competitive year for the Gaokao since the founding of the People's Republic of China.
At the end of the year, many people, due to personal, family, or societal considerations, missed the opportunity of the first resumption of the Gaokao. Fortunately, the Gaokao was only partly resumed in 1977. In 1978, college admissions restored a unified nationwide exam, organized by the Ministry of Education, with provinces, autonomous regions, and municipalities organizing examinations, grading, and admission work at local universities. As per Deng Xiaoping’s instruction, "The examination results of all candidates are to be announced at the same time as the list of those undergoing physical examination. The method of announcement is to be communicated to each individual by the admissions committee of the county (district)." Announcing the examination results was a crucial measure to increase the openness and transparency of the examination process. It played an important role in changing societal norms, eliminating the tendency to pull strings and show favoritism, and discourage corrupt behavior.
Because regular college admissions had been interrupted for a decade, more than 30 million youths and students across the country were eligible to apply. With colleges just recovering from the destruction of the "Cultural Revolution" and the availability of limited faculty and facilities for schooling, it was impossible to accommodate numerous students. In 1978, the Ministry of Education decided to restore and add 60 key colleges and 55 ordinary colleges and required all colleges to expand their enrollments by all possible means. As a result, in 1978, 6.1 million people nationwide took the Gaokao. 402,000 were admitted. Its unprecedented scale remains memorable for many people to this day. 
The once-suppressed tide of talent surged in an instant. More than 670,000 people were fortunate to step into the realm of higher education, and more than 11 million young people subsequently registered to take the Gaokao. This touched countless families, units, and social concerns, causing broad social impact.
With the abolition of the "Cultural Revolution" recruitment model for university students from workers, farmers, and soldiers, which was centered on power and origin, and adopted the method of "mass recommendation and leadership approval", the principle of unified examinations and admission on merits was implemented. They expanded the enrollment to recent high school graduates and young people from all walks of life who, in the past, could never even imagine having any opportunities. As a result of their own struggle, many of these people have transformed their lives. The phenomenon of "Blank Page Heroes" from the "Cultural Revolution" has vanished forever. The restoration of the college entrance examination has motivated a generation of young people to learn and instigated a mechanism for fair competition.
Though the revolt against the chaos was not fully carried out in 1977, many candidates were not admitted due to family issues. Candidates and parents, however, no longer remained silent and gave up. Instead, they went around to appeal for their rights, to fight for justice, which led to some problems being resolved. In response, the People's Daily published an editorial titled "The political review of college entrance examination must resolutely implement the party's policy", criticizing the inclination in the review of college students to focus primarily on their family and relatives' political history instead of the students' political performance. It pointed out that such biased and irresponsible practices were extremely harmful and seriously interfered with the implementation of the party's policy. With the deepening of the rectification of chaos in guiding ideology, the issue of overemphasizing the so-called "class line" in college admissions work has been resolved.
After the downfall of the "Gang of Four," there was a significant change in society - a climate of societal reconciliation was starting to form. This change was largely due to the gradual resolution of China's long-standing tense political relations. Not only was the college entrance examination fully restored, but at the National Science Conference in March 1978, Deng Xiaoping made the critical point that "Science and technology are not only productive forces but also a grand revolutionary force driving historical progress," reaffirming that the vast majority of intellectuals are already part of the working class. This overturned many years of "left-leaning" policies towards intellectuals. A "spring" that respected knowledge and talent had arrived, greatly inspiring intellectuals in every sector, including science, education, and arts. People commonly perceived a long-missed atmosphere of "reconciliation," accelerating the restoration and rebuilding of normal social order and lived routines, filling the society with vigor and vitality.
II. Theoretical Understanding and Breaking through Intellectual Resistance
The "Cultural Revolution" caused severe damage to the national economy and a significant disturbance in the field of ideology and theory. However, as the nation started to recover and build up the economy in 1977, economic theorists began to gradually clarify various erroneous ideas spread during the "Cultural Revolution" by criticizing the Gang of Four's fallacies on economic theory, gradually restoring the correct Marxist economic theory and the party's realistic thinking and correct standard for testing the truth, and correctly employing them in the process of socialist construction.
1. Major discussion on the issues of commodities, distribution, and distribution according to work in the economic theory community
Stalin's model of a planned economy is a highly centralized model. As a result, the commodity economy has always been in an awkward position in China. For many years, the commodity economy was seen as a capitalist phenomenon, even the most basic commodity exchange in rural markets was deemed as capitalism. Under this ideological guidance, the development of China's commodity economy was very restricted; the degree of commercialization of agricultural products was very low; industrial products could hardly meet the people's daily needs and couldn't provide enough machinery, fertilizers, and pesticides for agricultural development. The commodity distribution channel was singular; desired commodities were often obtained through a "supply" model, and some scarce commodities were acquired by means of a "coupon" model. This was a characteristic of a shortage economy under undeveloped commodity economic conditions. After the "Gang of Four" was smashed, in order to rid the dilemma of shortage economy, the first issue raised was to develop the commodity economy. In fact, to promote economic construction, it is necessary to develop a commodity economy. This requires stripping off the "capitalistic" shell attached to commodity production and distribution. 
On December 5, 1977, the State Council issued a "Notice on Holding a National Urban and Rural Commercial Dazhai Conference", which pointed out: the socialist commodity production and distribution have essential differences from that of capitalism. Our country is not producing too much, but too little. Under the coexistence of public ownership and collective ownership, socialist commodity production needs to be greatly developed. Only in this way can we strengthen the economic power of socialism, prevent capitalistic activities in towns and villages, and strengthen the material basis of proletarian dictatorship. We need to promote socialist production and the development of socialist commodity distribution righteously. Although this announcement carries the language characteristics of the time, like discussing the importance of commodity production and distribution from the perspective of "eliminating the activities of capitalism in urban and rural areas", it pointed out the essential differences between socialist commodity economy and capitalist commodity economy and proposed to boldly develop the commodity economy, which was of great significance at that time.
On July 7, 1978, Hua Guofeng delivered a speech at the National Financial and Trade Dazhai Conference. This speech, drafted by several comrades in theoretical circles and revised many times by Hu Qiaomu, analysed the relationship between economic development and supplying guarantees, essentially the mutual relationship of production, exchange, distribution, and consumption, which cannot be done without any. Production is the determining factor in the total production process, but exchange, distribution, and consumption also play a significant role in production, and the development of commerce was emphasized as a "powerful promoter" of agricultural and industrial production development. The speech had a great impact after it was published.
To promote the development of commodity production and circulation, the theoretical group of the State Council's Economic and Trade Group drafted a paper entitled "Refuting the 'Gang of Four's' Reactionary Fallacies Denigrating Socialist Productive Commodities", which clarified the proper understanding of socialist commodity production. The article pointed out that commodity production in socialist society must be allowed to exist and must be utilized to establish close connections between urban and rural areas. Only by vigorously developing commodity production and circulation can the varied needs of national construction and people's lives be satisfied. The vigorous development of the socialist commodity economy is a need for the mutual promotion between agriculture and industry. Although these arguments were still somewhat lacking, it was a significant step forward compared to previous absurd theories that viewed the commodity economy as a breeding ground for capitalism and that raising three ducks by rural members was socialist, whilst raising five was capitalist. 
After some progress in re-understanding the issues of commodity production and exchange, attempts to clarify the "leftist" influence on distribution according to work encountered many obstacles, because this involved Mao Zedong. As early as 1958, Mao Zedong saw wage systems, bonuses, etc., as the "bourgeois right" and believed these were a regression from the communist lifestyle in wartime, having attempted to restore the supply system. In 1974, when Mao Zedong met with Danish Prime Minister Poul Hartling, he said, "In summary, China is a socialist country. Before the liberation, it was not much different from capitalism. Now it still implements an eight-grade wage system, distribution according to work. These are not much different from the old society, the difference is that the ownership has changed." Regarding this, it can "only be restrained under the dictatorship of the proletariat".
The "Gang of Four" have greatly exaggerated the phrase "the distribution according to work has not much difference with the old society", and it has developed to the extreme. In 1975, Zhang Chunqiao and Yao Wenyuan separately published two articles, "On the Complete Dictatorship of the Bourgeoisie" and "On the Social Basis of the Lin Biao Anti-Party Group". They claimed that the distribution according to work is the bourgeoisie right, which is an important economic foundation for the emergence of new bourgeois elements, and can "only be restrained under the dictatorship of the proletariat." Because the article used Mao Zedong's speech, "breaking the bourgeoisie's right" seemed to have become a Marxist classic interpretation of the socialist distribution issue. At that time, all kinds of newspapers greatly publicized it, and the distribution according to work and the principle of material interest were thoroughly negated, which not only caused great confusion in theory but also brought many troubles to practice.
In January 1977, someone criticized Zhang Chunqiao and Yao Wenyuan by name. However, Wang Dongxing, who was in charge of propaganda work at the time, disagreed, arguing that these two articles had been read by Chairman Mao, so they could not be thoroughly negated, and could only criticize the wrong views in the article anonymously. This actually set a forbidden area for re-understanding the issue of distribution according to work. However, this did not prevent the discussion of the issue of distribution according to work from being carried out in depth. In February 1977, the Economic Research Institute of the National Planning Commission took the initiative, together with the Economic Research Institute of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, the National Labor Bureau, Peking University, and other units, to decide to hold a national economic theory discussion conference, starting with the criticism of the "Gang of Four" for their fallacies on the issue of distribution according to work. In April, the first discussion had the participation of over a hundred theorists from more than thirty units in Beijing. In June, the second discussion was attended by four hundred theorists from nearly a hundred units in Beijing.
In July, soon after Deng Xiaoping returned, he responded to the discussion in the economic circle. He said that the articles on distribution according to work are generally not bad, but he felt dissatisfied and did not dare to speak up. On August 3, Deng Xiaoping talked about the articles on the distribution according to work with Yu Guangyuan and others, saying that they were basically well written and valid, but a bit hesitant, and could be revised after discussion. He pointed out that there should be appropriate material rewards; those who work less get less, those who work more get more, make it clear. On August 8, Deng Xiaoping pointed out at a symposium on scientific education: talking about distribution according to work, it is nothing more than the more you work, the more you get, the less you work, the less you get, if you don't work, you don't get. From theory to practice, there are many specific issues to be studied and resolved. This is not only a question for the scientific and educational circles but also an issue for the whole nation.
"Work more, gain more; work less, get less; if you don't work, you get nothing" Deng Xiaoping, with his unique language, promoted the liberation of thought in the world of economics. On August 9, the People's Daily published an article refuting Yao Wenyuan's fallacy that distribution according to work produces bourgeoisie, and criticised Yao Wenyuan's article by name. From the end of October to the beginning of November, the economic circle held the third discussion on the issue of distribution according to work. In addition to more than 500 theorists from Beijing-based units, more than 300 theorists from 23 provinces, municipalities, and autonomous regions also attended, and more than 100 people gave speeches. The scale of the conference got bigger and bigger. Articles published in "People's Daily", "Guangming Daily", "Economic Research" and other newspapers are increasing day by day, and discussions in the economics field are gradually extending into the society.
From February 6 to March 5, 1978, the first session of the Fifth National People's Congress was held. The government work report clearly affirmed that "Throughout the entire socialist historical stage, the principles of 'He who does not work, neither shall he eat', and 'to each according to their labor' must be adhered to." It pointed out: In distribution, we should both avoid extreme disparities and oppose egalitarianism, implementing the practice of more work more gain, less work less gain. All the social teams must carefully implement the quota management and labor score system, enforcing equal pay for equal work regardless of gender. State-owned enterprise workers' wages implement a system that mainly relies on timing, supplemented by piecework, plus rewards. And for jobs with high labor intensity and poor working conditions, a post allowance is implemented. And the principle of distribution according to labor was incorporated into the constitution amendment approved by the conference.
According to Deng Xiaoping's opinions, the State Council Research Office organized the writing of an article on distribution according to labor. On March 28, Deng Xiaoping met with Hu Qiaomu, Deng Liqun, Yu Guangyuan and other leaders of the research office and said about the draft of the article: "I read this article, it is well written, it explains that the nature of distribution according to labor is socialist, not capitalist. Some places still need to be changed, connecting with the actual problems existing in the current distribution according to labor."
How to connect with the actual problems? Deng Xiaoping expressed some views that he formed through thinking:
According to the principle of distribution based on the quantity and quality of labor, when assessing the wage level of workers, the main factors to consider are their work performance, technical skills and contributions. The distribution problem can only be handled according to labor, not politics or qualifications. We implement a low-wage policy, which is a long-term policy. At present, the highest wage level for Class Eight workers is one hundred and several yuan. With the development of production in the future, wages should be gradually increased, the wage amounts for all levels should be increased. The wages of primary school teachers are too low now. A good primary school teacher, his labor is quite heavy, their wages should be increased. In the future, some primary school teachers who teach very well, their salaries can be rated as special class. Special classes should be set up in all walks of life to encourage people to engage in their own professions for their entire life.
An assessment system should be implemented. The assessment must be strict, comprehensive, and regular. All walks of life should do this. Rewards and punishments should be clear. Different remunerations should be given to those who perform well and those who perform poorly after the assessment. The bonus system should also be restored. Bonuses should be given to inventors and creators, as well as those who have made special contributions. Scientists who have made significant achievements can not only be rewarded for their inventions, but their salary level can also be increased. The fee system should also be restored and revised according to the new situation. There are many things to do in order to implement the principle of distribution according to work. Some problems need to be solved gradually through research and investigation. Some systems need to be restored and established. The overall purpose is to encourage everyone to make progress.
On May 5, after the personal review of Deng Xiaoping and Li Xiannian, The People's Daily published this article titled "Implementing the Socialist Principle of Distribution According to Work". The article comprehensively proved the socialist nature of the distribution according to work, elaborated on various types of labor compensation under the distribution according to work, and systematically cleaned up theoretical errors and confusion on the issue of distribution according to work. The article has aroused widespread social response. At the same time, it was also criticized by the leaders who advocated for "two whatevers". Wang Dongxing criticized this article at a small meeting, saying that it "actually points the finger at Chairman's thought". Deng Xiaoping believed that this was a Marxist article. He also told the person in charge of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences: We cannot give in on the theory, as appeasement will lose our principles.
In August, institutes such as the Economic Research Institute of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences held a special discussion on implementing the principle of distribution according to work in rural areas. Comrades from 17 provinces, autonomous regions, municipalities directly under the Central Government, and relevant departments of the Central Committee attended. The participants generally believed that the main trend in the distribution of current agriculture is egalitarianism. Some comrades urged that in order to manage well, we must adhere to the principle of material interest and let people care about their labor results from material interests. This principle, which could not be talked about in the past, must now be emphasized and applied in actual work. We should proceed from reality and not bind our minds to certain concepts. Some economists pointed out that over the past twenty years of cooperation, although the state has invested a lot in agriculture, agricultural production has not developed correspondingly, and this must be due to the production relations. To boost agriculture, it is necessary to strengthen the material foundation of agricultural production, but it is even more important to seriously implement the policies of equal exchange and distribution according to work.
From October 25 to November 2, at the fourth discussion on distribution according to work, the focus was on whether the combination of distribution according to work, commodity production, and money exchange can lead to the emergence of a new bourgeoisie. Most of the participants believed that socialism's distribution according to work, commodity production, and money exchange will neither lead to capitalism nor form a new bourgeoisie. Regarding this, some participants also explained with systematic social investigation that there isn't a new bourgeoisie that is produced by distribution according to work.
The discussion on the issue of distribution according to work at this stage is large-scale and long-lasting, mainly clarifying the following issues: (1) Distribution according to work is the distribution principle of socialism, and it is by no means a factor of capitalism. (2) The right to exchange equal labor in the distribution according to work is both an equal right and an unequal right. There is no hierarchy in the distribution according to work. Distribution according to work will not give rise to capitalism and bourgeoisie. (3) Bonuses and piece-rate wages are not revisionist things and should be restored. In the situation of rectifying chaos, the great discussion on the issue of distribution according to work has played a positive role in clarifying people's fuzzy understanding.
At the same time, the theoretical circle also criticized the "Gang of Four" for slandering the development of production as "solely focusing on productivity". A few consensuses have been reached through discussions: (1) Genuine socialism should be a higher mode of production than capitalism, and should create higher productivity than capitalism. Socialism is incompatible with poverty, and poverty is not the essential requirement of the socialist system. (2) Our country is building socialism in a relatively backward country in terms of productivity, and must take the road from poverty to wealth, making our country quickly prosperous and becoming a modern strong country of socialism. To achieve this goal, we can only rely on the development of productivity. (3) The real contradiction that China currently faces is still the contradiction between productivity and productive relationships. This contradiction is mainly manifested in the presence of many factors in the productive relationships and the superstructure that hinder the development of productivity, which contradict and conflict with the requirements of productivity development. The resolution of this contradiction must rely on the development of social productivity. (4) The production relationship must suit the nature of productivity. In accordance with this rule, on the one hand, we need to change the backward production relationships, open the way for the development of productivity, and at the same time prevent the over-exaggeration of the counter-effects of production relationships. If the changes in production relationships are too rapid and too fast, surpassing the level of productivity development, it will also hinder the development of productivity, and even destroy productivity.
On this issue, Deng Xiaoping also expressed his opinion. In October 1977, he said when meeting with Canadian guests: "The Gang of Four" denies the importance of productivity. Whoever proposes to develop productivity is said to be "being focused solely on productivity". This is one of our major debates with the "Gang of Four". If the productivity doesn't develop to the point of being extremely rich in material, how can we realize distribution according to demand, and how can we enter communism? Marxism-Leninism doesn't have the term "solely focusing on productivity", this term is unscientific. In December, he said when meeting guests from Australia: How can we reflect the superiority of socialism that Lenin talked about? What is the superiority? Is not working and not studying considered superiority? Is the decline in people's living standards instead of improving considered superiority? If this is called the superiority of socialism, we can also reject this kind of socialism.
In addition, the theoretical circle has also carried out a theoretical analysis on the era when the "left" mistakes prevailed, where conducting affairs according to economic rules was regarded as something opposed to the emphasis on politics. The representative article at the time was "Conducting Affairs According to Economic Rules and Accelerating the Realization of Four Modernizations" which was drafted by Hu Qiaomu, Yu Guangyuan, and Ma Hong. This article was first spoken by Hu Qiaomu at the State Council's virtual meeting, and then published in People's Daily on October 6, 1977. The article discusses the following points: Economic law is objective and is not subject to people's will; although economic law is objective, it cannot automatically ensure that people act according to the objective economic law. This must be studied and consciously complied with its law. Acting in accordance with the economic law, we must first improve scientific management and expand the role of economic organizations and economic means. Specifically, one is to promote the contractual system, the second is to develop professional companies, the third is to strengthen the role of banks, and the fourth is to develop economic legislation and economic justice. These discussions hit the nail on the head and provide directional guidance for solving problems in practical economic life. Some effective economic management methods have been initiated, such as quality-based compensation, piece-rate wages, etc. have been reintroduced.
2. Historical reflection in the literary and artistic world
After the crushing of the "Gang of Four", with the so-called "literary and artistic black line dictatorship thesis" being completely overthrown, a large number of films, dramas, and other excellent Chinese and foreign literary and artistic works that have been banned for a long time have been liberated. Mass organizations such as the United Front and the Writers Association have resumed their work, various literary and artistic creations have gradually become active, and some literary works that have initially reflected on the damage of the "Cultural Revolution" have soon appeared. After experiencing the situation of a "cultural desert" for ten years, simply recovering the works that were available before the "Cultural Revolution" is far from meeting social needs. It is still difficult to change the situation where the flowers of literature and art are withered without new works reflecting the fate of ordinary people in past ages from a new height. In such a period of transition from old to new, reportage literature, which is very realistic, has emerged first.
The form of reportage literature is most close to people's real life and can show readers the survival status and the truth of related events of the protagonists they are not familiar with but want to learn about. After crushing the "Gang of Four", the field of science education was the first to release a little "spring mood". The always sensitive writers captured the spring breeze. The stories of Chinese scientists who remained unmoved in the decade of turmoil and insisted on scientific research at the cost of life are very vivid and moving. Even without deliberate carving, it is enough to shock people's hearts.
The old-generation writer Xu Chi was the first to pick up the pen, recording the life journeys of scientists who have been submerged by the enthusiastic ignorant political atmosphere but have been tirelessly working hard to rejuvenate China's science and technology. He passionately sings of scientists who are willing to be lonely and selflessly dedicated in a difficult time. He wrote "Light of Geology", "Goldbach's Conjecture", and "The Tree of Life Remains Green" one after another. The emergence of these works injected vitality into the literary and art forms that were ravaged and distorted during the decade of turmoil, and burst into life.
The "Goldbach's Conjecture" published in the first issue of "People's Literature" in 1978, with fresh and gorgeous, philosophical yet poetic strokes, vividly depicts mathematician Chen Jingrun's persistent and unyielding tenacity in conquering world-class mathematical difficulties, his heartfelt desire for the motherland's scientific cause and his noble quality of not succumbing to evil forces and being shaken by temptation in the face of political storms. It truly reproduces the feelings of a generation of intellectuals in the new China who are obsessed with scientific exploration. People's Daily reprinted this piece of reportage literature in two full pages, which is rare in the history of the People's Daily.
Subsequently, a batch of realistic works praising Chinese scientists have emerged. Readers recognize the names of leading figures and young and middle-aged scientific research elites in the Chinese science and technology community from the deep historical sense of the pen, they are: geologist Li Siguang, biologist Tong Dizhou, quantum chemist Tang Auqing, physicist Xie Xide, mathematician Chen Jingrun, botanist Cai Xitao, engineering physicist Wu Zhonghua, hydrologist Zhang Guangdou, mathematician Hua Luogeng, science and technology ironman Chen Zhen, cotton planting model Wu Jichang, etc. People marvel at these groups of scientists who have distinct personalities yet share common ideals. Despite facing extremely sparse material conditions, and interruptions from the "leftist" political tendencies of past eras, they have still attained world-leading scientific achievements and have earned respect from society. The intellectual, emotional, and value-related impacts brought about by these reportage literature works have instigated and ignited the flame of rational thinking in society, thereby creating a sweeping momentum.
Before and after this, literary works revealing the trauma of the "Cultural Revolution" - termed "Scar Literature" - also began to emerge. People's Literature in 1977 published a short story called "Class Monitor" by Beijing writer Liu Xinwu, which is regarded as the foundational work of "Scar Literature". In his narrative, the author painstakingly portrays two typical middle school students - the small thug Song Baoqi and the Youth League Branch Secretary Xie Huimin. Although the imprint of the "Cultural Revolution" seems to be vastly different onto these two individuals, the depths of their souls have both been seared with the indelible scars inflicted by ultra-leftist currents.
Following the publication of the story, it aroused strong reactions amongst readers. A number of reflective works considering the pain inflicted by the Cultural Revolution gradually began to appear in newspapers and magazines. Among these works, a notable one is the short story "Scar", published in Wen Hui Bao on August 1, 1978. This narrative uncovers the life hardships and soul "injuries" inflicted upon Chinese society and particularly young people, by the ultra-leftist trend and "Theory of Bloodline". A highly stimulating theme that directly touches upon the hidden pains of real-life society instigates thoughts of people reflecting on their past and projecting into their future, and has significant influence throughout the nation.
The reason why the novel "Scar" sparked an enormous reaction in society and resonated with a considerable portion of people was mainly because it was able to articulate the inexplicable pain felt in people's hearts at the time. Indeed, with regards to the topic and ideas reflected in the work, there was a plethora of mixed opinions and it was a controversial piece. Some symposiums held in both Shanghai and Beijing including some debates. However, whether in agreement or disagreement, these types of literature quickly created a trend, later to be known as "Scar Literature". In reality, this phenomenon was a necessary form of historical reflection for people returning to rationality after China had just endured a period of great societal upheaval. Although this reflection is still primary and superficial, it has prompted more people to deeply and rationally consider the errors of the "Leftist" dominance in the past.
The historical reflection triggered by "Scar Literature" will become the eternal proposition of rational thinking during the transition from tradition to modernity: Throughout the decades of China's development, the entire humanistic condition has ruptured. This rupture, fed by the long-term influences of the May Fourth Movement, has essentially negated the broad consensus of pre-Qin philosophers; and the Cultural Revolution, which subverted the May Fourth tradition of Democracy and Science. The consequence is that the humanistic spirit cultivated by modern China was sacrificed during turbulent times, and the long-standing core values passed down by the Chinese nation have been severed. Post-severance, these values can be recovered, but the scars from the wounds cannot be reverted to their original state. In the ten years of upheaval during the "Cultural Revolution", human problems, societal problems, and ideological issues have slowly emerged over the next two or three decades. Among various populations and classes, due to various new and old reasons, these problems are everywhere - which is the truly grave problem. Only with the return of the rationality of societal values, and when the economic and social development and national prosperity reach a certain level after the reform and opening up, will we return to the issue of "humanity". The humanistic condition of a civilized society is always undeniable.
Literature played a leading role in opening rational thinking in the cultural realm of the time, but drama played a more unique role in mobilizing people's thoughts and emotions. In March 1978, the Beijing People's Art Theatre staged the drama "Danxin Pu" created by Su Shuyang. This was the first political drama performed by the theatre after its restoration. The play describes a thrilling struggle between a group of medical workers, represented by the elderly intellectual Fang Lingxuan, who are researching a new treatment for coronary heart disease on Prime Minister Zhou Enlai's orders, and the minions of the "Gang of Four". It deeply exposes the profound "inner injuries" caused by the "Gang of Four's" rampant actions on people's souls, praises Fang Lingxuan's persistent pursuit of the scientific enterprise, and powerfully condemns the despicable behavior of those who sided with the "Gang of Four" such as Fang Jisheng. The performance of the play, and the performance of "In a Silent Place", a four-act drama written by Shanghai worker Zong Fuxian, both received rave reviews and were highly sought after.
As the People's Daily commented at the time, it was "using the form of literature and art to turn over the history that the 'Gang of Four' had turned upside down, expressing what billions of people wanted to say in their hearts, and expressing the strong feelings deep in the hearts of the people". The exposure and criticism of the "Gang of Four" in China's art and literature circles was the start of historical reflection on the "Cultural Revolution" in various artistic forms and expressive language, which powerfully propelled the wave of liberation of thought at that time.
3. The Great Debate on the Criterion of Truth
The discussions in the economic theory circles and historical reflections in the literature and art circles took the lead in breaking the "forbidden zones", playing a role of "letting in light by drilling through the wall". However, under the rigid shell of "two whatevers", it was still difficult to thoroughly clarify the rights and wrongs before and during the "Cultural Revolution". In the words of Hu Yaobang: since we have firmly and forcefully taken the first step, we will never retreat and strive to expand the opening we have already made. Therefore, critical weapons must be raised against the "two whatevers".
The older generation of revolutionaries of the Chinese Communist Party, with both high political prestige and rich experience of long-term struggle, first brought forward the ideological weapon of seeking truth from facts.
On September 5, 1977, Nie Rongzhen published an article titled "Restoring and Carrying Forward the Party's Fine Style" in the 9th issue of "Red Flag" magazine. Nie Rongzhen proposed: The thought of seeking truth from facts is the most valuable theoretical legacy Mao Zedong has left us. "To uphold the style of seeking truth from facts, we must treat Marxism-Leninism and Mao Zedong Thought with the right attitude. In studying and applying Marxism-Leninism and Mao Zedong Thought, we must grasp the spiritual essence, learn its standpoints, viewpoints, and methods, use the basic principles as action guidelines, and firmly oppose treating certain phrases of Marxism-Leninism and Mao Zedong Thought as dogmas divorced from time, place, and conditions." "All right thoughts are subject to time, place, and conditions, otherwise they become metaphysics." "We must never forget for a moment to seek truth from facts, to divide one into two, and to base everything on time, place, and conditions, otherwise we are deviating from the most fundamental aspect of Mao Zedong Thought."
On September 19, Xu Xiangqian, in his article "Always Adhere to the Principle of Party Commanding the Gun," emphasized the importance of sticking to the principle of seeking truth from facts through discussing the party's struggle with Zhang Guozhu and the "Gang of Four" on military issues. He pointed out: "We must never act like some people, running after whoever has greater power without considering the correctness of the way. This is very dangerous. Of course, it is not easy to distinguish between the correct and wrong path." Therefore, it is necessary to "fully and accurately understand and master Marxism-Leninism and Mao Zedong Thought."
On September 28, Chen Yun, in his article "Stick to the Revolutionary Style of Seeking Truth from Facts", severely criticized the rampant idealism and metaphysics when the "Gang of Four" ran rampant. He pointed out: "The 'Gang of Four' and their followers tell lies, fabricate cases, and play double-faced anti-revolutionaries, which has become a common thing. They have twisted, split, tampered with, and forged Marxism-Leninism and Mao Zedong Thought to an extreme extent, using quotes from Marxist classics as a talisman to oppress, harm people, harm the Party, and harm the country. They have seriously destroyed the good tradition and style of our Party that Chairman Mao has cultivated for a long time. They not only greatly damaged the Party's way of seeking truth from facts, but also brazenly constructed a "theoretical" basis for their subjective idealism system. They vigorously promote the "anti-empiricism" guideline, which actually denies practical experience as the basis of cognition, denies all correct principles that start from practice, and denies Chairman Mao's principle of seeking truth from facts.
Chen Yun profoundly pointed out: "Seeking truth from facts is not an ordinary style issue, it is a fundamental ideological route issue of Marxist materialism. We must adhere to Marxism-Leninism and Mao Zedong Thought, so we must adhere to seeking truth from facts. If we deviate from the revolutionary style of seeking truth from facts, then we will deviate from Marxism-Leninism and Mao Zedong Thought and become idealists who are out of touch with reality, and then, our revolutionary work will fail. Therefore, whether to maintain the revolutionary style of seeking truth from facts is actually one of the fundamental signs to distinguish between genuine and counterfeit Marxism-Leninism and Mao Zedong Thought."
The older generation of revolutionaries emphasized adhering to the fundamental ideological route of seeking truth from facts, opposing the use of some phrases or use of a few words by Mao Zedong to split Mao Zedong Thought. On this issue, the "Two Whatevers" is exactly meant to uphold everything of Mao Zedong, including his erroneous theories and practices in his later years. In response to this difficult problem, in July 1977, shortly after the resumption of his work at the third plenary session of the tenth central committee, Deng Xiaoping immediately put forward the need to accurately and completely understand Mao Zedong Thought, adhere to the scientific system of Mao Zedong Thought; and actively advocated to maintain Mao Zedong's basic view of seeking truth from facts in order to guide people to treat Mao Zedong Thought and Mao Zedong with the correct attitude.
However, just after Mao's death, with the deep influence of the long-term personal worship of Mao within the party, it would be extremely difficult to be "complete and accurate". This requires an objective standard that puts all people and things under it. Otherwise, it will be impossible to break free from the shackles of the "Two Whatevers", and the guiding principle of emancipating the mind and seeking truth from facts will be hard to reestablish. This will inevitably affect the in-depth development of rectifying chaos, and the hesitation in various tasks will be difficult to reverse. Hence, the standard of testing truth was proposed.
At the end of 1977, more than 800 mid-to-high-level cadres who were studying at the Central Party School held concentrated discussions on the history of the Party since the "Cultural Revolution". A prominent problem encountered during the discussion is what standards should be used to understand and judge the right and wrong of history. For this, Hu Yaobang, who was then in charge of the routine work of the Central Party School and Vice President, guided the theoretical workers of the Party School to amend several times, and wrote a document guiding the study of the Party's history, clearly proposing two guiding principles: one is to fully and accurately use the basic principles of Marxism-Leninism and Mao Zedong Thought; the second is to use practice as the standard for testing truth and distinguishing right from wrong. Under the guidance of these two principles, some theoretical workers of the Party School began to write articles on the issue of the standard of truth, in response to the influence of "whatevers".
In March 1978, in response to the confusion concerning the standard of truth, the editorial department of the People's Daily published a thought-provoking commentary titled "There is Only One Standard", clearly stating: "The standard of truth is only one, which is social practice." After the article was published, it met with some opposition from people who believed that Marxism-Leninism and Mao Zedong Thought were the standards for testing truth. Therefore, the editorial department decided to continue organizing articles to further clarify this issue.
In early April, the Guangming Daily was preparing to publish an article titled "Practice is the Standard of Testing Truth", by Hu Fukang, a teacher of the Philosophy Department of Nanjing University, on its "Philosophy Special Issue". Yang Xiguang, the new editor-in-chief who had just returned from studying at the Central Party School, keenly felt the weight of the issues discussed in the article on China's political and intellectual circles at the time, and thus decided to remove the article from the "Philosophy Special Issue", add some realistic targetivity, and then publish it on the first page. At this time, the original author Hu Fukang came to Beijing to participate in the theoretical discussion, and the newspaper invited him to discuss modifications with the Central Party School's theoretical research room. After modification, the manuscript was processed twice by newspaper editors, and then sent to the Central Party School's theoretical research room for further modification and polishing before the final draft was confirmed.
The article "Practice is the Only Standard of Testing Truth", after being personally approved by Hu Yaobang, was first published in the "Theoretical Trends" of the Central Party School on May 10, 1978; the Guangming Daily published it in the form of a special commentator's article the next day. On the 12th, the People's Daily and the Liberation Army Daily reprinted the full text, and Xinhua News Agency also released a communiqué. Many provincial and municipal party newspapers also reprinted it one after the other.
The article, which contains the collective wisdom of the theoretical circle at the time, explains with a large amount of facts that practice is not only the standard for testing truth, but also the only standard, and all theories must continuously accept the test of practice. Marxism is recognized as truth because it has been confirmed by the long-term practice of hundreds of millions of people. The dialectical and materialistic epistemology of practice standards, which is the absolute and relative dialectical unity of viewpoints, are the views that any thought, any theory must without exception, always, and continuously accept the test of practice, which is also the view of the development of truth. In testing truth with practice, our revolutionary mentors have set an example for us.
In connection with the then state of affairs in the field of thought and politics, the article emphasizes: the "Gang of Four" and its gang system has now been destroyed, but the mental shackles of the "Gang of Four" imposed on people have not been completely shattered. The tendency that Mao Zedong once criticized, "only what is recorded in the Bible is right", still exists. Whether in theory or in practical work, the "Gang of Four" have set up many "forbidden areas" that confine people's thoughts. For these "forbidden areas", we should dare to touch and distinguish right from wrong. Science has no forbidden areas. Where there is a "forbidden area" that goes beyond practice and self-claims to be absolute, there is no science, there is no real Marxism, no Mao Zedong Thought, only obscurantism, idealism, and cultural despotism.
The article finally states: To us, there are still many places that are the inevitable kingdom yet to be recognized in socialism. In order to complete this great task, we are faced with many new problems, which we need to understand and study. Lying on the pre-existing provisions of Marxism and Mao Zedong Thought, and even using ready-made formulas to restrict, dissect, and trim the ever-enriching, rapidly evolving revolutionary practice, this attitude is incorrect. We need to bear the responsibility and courage of a Communist and dare to study vivid real-life situations, to investigate the exact realities, and to explore new issues brought up in new practices. Only in this way can we adopt a correct attitude towards Marxism and gradually progress from the kingdom of necessity to the kingdom of freedom, successfully embarking upon a new, great Long March.
In fact, the article "Practice is the sole criterion for testing truth" repeatedly proves a common-sense philosophical proposition of Marxism, and in itself has no special theoretical innovations. However, under the specific historical conditions where the "Cultural Revolution" had just ended, and "two whatever" still restrained people's thoughts, its distinctive tendency, strong pertinence, exerted infinite power. As soon as the article was published, it immediately caused different responses from all walks of society, and set off a huge wave inside and outside the Party. The nationwide discussion on the standard of truth thus began.
On May 12th, the very day when the "People’s Daily" republished the article "Practice is the sole criterion for testing truth," a responsible person of the newspaper received a phone call accusing the article of making a "directional error."
On May 17th, Wang Dongxing, then Vice Chairman of the CPC Central Committee, criticized by name the articles "Practice is the sole criterion for testing truth" and "Implementing the socialist principle of distribution according to labor" published by the "People’s Daily" on May 5th, saying that they had not read these two articles, and that the endless discussion inside and outside the Party was in fact aimed at the Chairman's thoughts. Our party's newspaper should not do this. He questioned, "Whose idea within the Central Committee is this?"  and stated that we should "investigate and learn a lesson, unify our understanding, and not repeat it," and requested the Central Propaganda Department to "guard."
On May 18th, at the discussion meeting held by the Propaganda Department for National Education Work Conference and provincial and city cultural and educational secretaries and propaganda directors, Zhang Pinghua, Minister of the Propaganda Department, asked everyone to "discuss and express different opinions" on the article "Practice is the Only Criterion for Testing Truth." And he said, "Don't believe that it is a final decision just because the 'People's Daily' has published it or the Xinhua News Agency has disseminated it." "Chairman Mao once told the heads of provinces and cities that no matter where it comes from, including the Central Committee, smell it first, and see whether it smells good or bad. Don’t follow the wind."
On June 15th, Wang Dongxing convened a meeting with heads of the Central Propaganda Department, central directly affiliated agencies and related news units. At the meeting, he criticized "Practice is the Sole Criterion of truth" and a few other articles again, named Hu Yaobang, and reminded him to pay attention when writing articles for the newspaper. He particularly mentioned that some articles by commissioned commentators should be noted as a few were not very appropriate. We should not seek temporary satisfaction. He believes that shortcomings in propaganda will be exploited by enemies at home and abroad. Soviet and American hegemons and reactionaries will all take advantage, sow discord. They will stir up relationships among Politburo Standing Committee members, Party Committee members, between Chairman Mao and Chairman Hua, and between workers and farmers. If the propaganda gate is not tightened, it would be a terrible thing if it gets exploited by the enemy.
In July, the Central leaders in charge of propaganda work visited Shandong Province for an inspection. In Jinan, they talked to the leading comrades of the Shandong Provincial Committee, during which the topic of the standard of truth was brought up. The summary can be encapsulated in three sentences: One, do not surrender our flag; two, do not abandon our weapons, and three, do not make a 180-degree u-turn. 
Under such political circumstances, many publications eagerly participate, yet the "Red Flag" magazine maintains a long silence. Of course, silence is also a stand. When the person in charge of the magazine reflected that the attitude of the "Red Flag" was under criticism from both inside and outside the party, Wang Dongxing said: "Don’t be afraid of being isolated. What are you afraid of! Don’t be afraid. The 'Red Flag' will not participate in this discussion."
When the discussion of the criterion of truth was being suppressed and hardly bearable for a time, Deng Xiaoping and other older-generation revolutionaries stood out and gave strong support. On May 30th, in a conversation with several leaders, Deng Xiaoping pointedly said: "As long as what you say is different from what Chairman Mao said, it is not acceptable. What Chairman Mao and Chairman Hua did not say, you said, is also unacceptable. You have to copy exactly what Chairman Mao and Chairman Hua said, and only if you copy all of it will it be ok. This is not a phenomenon of isolation; it is a reflection of the current trend of thought." He emphasized, "The most fundamental and most important thing in Mao Zedong's thought is seeking truth from facts. Now, even practice as a test of truth has become a problem, which is simply inexplicable."
On June 2nd, at the All-Army Political Work Conference, Deng Xiaoping once again talked about this issue and criticized: "We also have some comrades who talk about Mao Zedong's thoughts every day, but often forget, abandon, or even oppose Comrade Mao Zedong’s principle of seeking truth from facts, starting from reality, and integrating theory with practice. This fundamental Marxist viewpoint and method are not only abandoned; some people think that if anyone insists on seeking truth from facts, starting from reality, and integrating theory with practice, they have committed a horrendous crime. Their views essentially advocate for copying Marx, Lenin, and Comrade Mao Zedong verbatim, as long as you copy, it is enough. Otherwise, they would say that this is a violation of Marxism-Leninism and Mao Zedong Thought, and a violation of the spirit of the Central Committee. The problem they raised is not a small one; it is about how to view Marxism, Leninism, and Mao Zedong Thought."
On July 21st, Deng Xiaoping specifically found Zhang Pinghua, the Minister of the Central Propaganda Department, to talk and asked him "no more bans or restricted areas, do not pull back the lively political situation that has just begun".
On August 19th, Deng Xiaoping, in a conversation with the person in charge of the Ministry of Culture, also said: "I have said that the article 'Practice is the Sole Criterion for Testing Truth' is Marxist and is undeniable. I agree with the views of this article."
On September 16th, Deng Xiaoping, while listening to the work report of the Standing Committee of the Jilin Provincial Committee, said more directly: "Now inside and outside the party, at home and abroad, many people advocate raising the banner of Mao Zedong Thought. What is it called to raise it? How to raise it? As we all know, there is a kind of discussion called 'two whatevers', which is quite famous? Documents reviewed by Comrade Mao Zedong cannot be touched, and things done and said by Comrade Mao Zedong cannot be touched. Is this called raising the banner of Mao Zedong Thought? No! If this continues, it will harm Mao Zedong's thought ..." The basic point of Mao Zedong Thought is seeking truth from facts, which is the combination of the universal principles of Marxism-Leninism with the specific practice of the Chinese revolution."
On September 9, Li Xiannian also expressed support for the discussion on the standard of truth in his speech at the State Council. He said that the destruction of Lin Biao and the "Gang of Four" had messed up many theoretical issues, including the relationship between theory and practice, causing ideological confusion that needs to be clarified. He emphasized the role of practice as the only standard for testing truth, indicating that things proven to be in line with objective laws and in the interests of the majority through long-term social practice should be resolutely pursued. All our policy plans and measures, whether correct or not, should be evaluated by whether they can benefit the people.
In commemoration of the 85th birthday of Mao Zedong, "Hongqi" Magazine invited Tan Zhenlin to write an article recalling Mao Zedong's leadership in the Jinggangshan struggle. After the article was written, the editors found that in addition to recalling history, it also discussed the issue about practice being the standard of truth. This was in contradiction with the attitude of "Hongqi" not being involved, and the author was unwilling to make amendments. As a last resort, it had to be submitted to the Standing Committee for judgment. Hua Guofeng, Deng Xiaoping, Li Xiannian and others agreed on publishing this article.
Deng Xiaoping and Li Xiannian also criticized "Hongqi" Magazine in their comments. Deng Xiaoping wrote: "I think this article is good, at least there are no errors." "If 'Hongqi' is reluctant to publish it, it can be transferred to 'People's Daily'. Why isn't 'Hongqi' involved? It should be. Different opinions can be published. It seems that not being involved may be being involved after all." Li Xiannian commented: "After reading this article, I believe what Comrade Tan Zhenlin is saying is historical fact, it should be published. 'Hongqi' is too passive if it's not published, it has already been very passive."
When the central high-level leadership further engaged the "Whatever Faction" in the debate about the standard of truth, the theoretical, academic and journalistic worlds followed suit. Inspired by the concern and support of the older generation of revolutionaries, they withstood the various pressures from the "Whatever Faction", continued to write articles, hold discussions, and further deepen the already initiated debate.
As for the claim that practice is the standard for testing truth, most people expressed support, but some questioned whether practice is the "only standard". They believe that practice is indeed the standard of truth, but Marxism should also be the standard for testing truth. This was a common cognitive issue at that time. In response to this situation, Xing Bensi of the Institute of Philosophy of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences published an article entitled "On the Issue of the Standard of Truth" in response to an invitation from the People's Daily, specifically addressing the aforementioned question. The article argued that advocating both practice and Marxism as the standards of truth violates the monism of dialectical materialism and could cause theoretical confusion. In terms of cognition, this confuses the issues of truth and the standard of truth. Marxism is the truth, but just as any truth cannot prove itself, Marxism also cannot prove itself, it needs to be proven by practice. At the same time, Marxism cannot be used as a standard to test other truths. Another confusion is that Marxism is the pointer of revolutionary practice, which is confused with Marxism being the standard of truth. These are two different questions. Philosophically, while acknowledging the reflective effect of theoretical knowledge on practice, one must not deny the fundamental determinant role of practice, nor should one use this reflection as a substitute for the question of practice being the standard of testing truth.
In the face of various criticisms that practice is the only standard for testing truth, theorists have given persuasive responses and refutations. The most systematic, sharp, and pungent of these is the article "A Basic Principle of Marxism" published on June 24th by the Liberation Army Daily in the name of a special commentator. The article clearly points out: "The most powerful refutation of agnosticism, skepticism, and other strange philosophical theories is practice. This is a famous saying by Engels when he criticized Hume and Kant's agnosticism and skepticism, and it is still meaningful for us to quote it today." "Marxist epistemology recognizes practice as the true authority.   In the world, it is only because there is no established objective standard for judging truth (practice) that agnosticism and skepticism have a market. Never because an objective standard of truth has been established, agnosticism and skepticism have become popular. Whoever holds the opposite view, that is another astonishing 'inversion'!"
In response to this inverted relationship, the article pointed out sharply: "Marxist theory is science, not superstition; theory must first be subject to practice before it can guide practice; theory is not immutable, it is constantly supplemented, revised, enriched, and developed in practice." Therefore, we cannot stop at old conclusions and old slogans, and of course, it is not easy to change these old slogans. "The reasons are, besides the fact that people's thinking often lags behind reality, that the interests of some people are more or less connected with these old slogans. These people, while verbally saying that they are worried that some old slogans and old statements will cause the entire revolution and the entire theory to be negated (obviously, this is just a kind of Arabian Nights rhetoric), they are actually afraid that some of their personal things will be harmed as a result." In response to some people's criticism, such as: If practice is placed first, as the only standard for testing truth, then what position should Mao Zedong Thought and Chairman Mao's words be in? The article pointed out: For those who are talking nonsense, they only need to ask them back: Chairman Mao said that only the revolutionary practice of tens of millions of people is the measure of testing truth, "there is no other way to test truth." Where do you put this teaching of Chairman Mao? How is it considered to be acting according to Chairman Mao's teaching?
This article, which is more than ten thousand characters long, is full of reasoning, very targeted, and is known as the sister piece of the article "Practice is the Only Standard for Testing Truth". It was published with the care and support of Luo Ruiqing, the Secretary-General of the Central Military Commission. After the article was written, the Liberation Army newspaper sent it to Luo Ruiqing for review. Luo Ruiqing read it three times in detail, made five phone calls personally, consulted relevant works personally, suggested many changes, and required the article to be impeccable. This general, who was persecuted and had his leg broken in the "Cultural Revolution", and amputated high, even made a special call to Hu Jiwei, the person in charge of the People's Daily before he went to West Germany for leg treatment, saying, "If this article is to be hit, I am willing to take 50 big boards first." This risk-taking spirit shows Luo Ruiqing's clear attitude in supporting the discussion on the standards of truth, who later couldn't stand up again in a West German hospital.
The fact that practice is the standard for testing truth has always been self-evident, and there is no need for argument in the field of natural sciences. However, natural scientists are still actively involved in this discussion. In mid-May, a joint meeting was held under the leadership of Fangyi by the National Science Committee, the Chinese Academy of Sciences, and the Party Group of the China Association for Science and Technology, to discuss relevant articles and made a decision: to support this discussion. On July 5th, the "Seminar on the Relationship between Theory and Practice" organized by the Theoretical Group of the Chinese Academy of Sciences and the China Natural Dialectics Research Society was held in Beijing. Many scholars from the fields of natural sciences and social sciences participated in the discussion and made speeches. Scientists illustrated with numerous examples from the history of natural sciences, that when the original natural science theory conflicts with the new scientific experimental facts, the breakthrough of the old theory and the establishment of the new theory must simultaneously rely on practice. The arguments they provided from the viewpoint of natural sciences played a special supporting role in this big discussion in the realm of political ideology.
From July 17th to 24th, the Philosophy Research Institute of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, and the editorial department of 'Philosophy Studies' invited more than 160 theoretical workers from central and state ministries and commissions, Party schools, colleges and universities, research units, and news units in various provinces, municipalities, and autonomous regions to hold a discussion on the relationship between theory and practice. During the discussion, many social science workers spoke, connected with reality, and fully affirmed the practical significance of this discussion. After the discussion, many representatives of provinces and cities conveyed information, and the discussion on the standard of truth was pushed nationwide.
In the second half of 1978, the theoretical circle, academic circle, literary and art circle, and news circle nationwide actively participated in the discussion on the standard of truth. According to incomplete statistics, by the end of the year, more than 650 special articles on the discussion of the standard of truth had been published in central and provincial-level newspapers and magazines. With the continuation of the discussion, articles were still being published successively. It became a nationwide discussion with theorists as the main force, which affected all circles and everyone paid attention to.
In the heated discussion, one phenomenon caught the public's eye, that was, with the development of the discussion on the standard of truth, most provincial party and government leading bodies and large military district leading bodies around the country have successively started the discussion on the standard of truth. Many principals of provinces, autonomous regions, municipalities directly under the central government, and large military districts publicly wrote articles or made speeches, expressing their support for the viewpoint that practice is the only standard to test truth, and highly praised the theoretical and practical significance of this discussion. This is rare in the history of the Party and the Republic. Their speeches generally connected with the national and local realities at the time, not only pointing out the theoretical significance of this discussion, but also emphasizing its political significance. 

Moreover, this movement, later known as a great ideological liberation in the history of modern Chinese thought, laid the foundation for the exploration and a series of theoretical innovations and practical development of socialism with Chinese characteristics after the reform and opening up.

IV. Partial fermentation of the issue of shifting the focus of party and national work



The discussion on the question of the criterion of truth has liberated thinking and promoted the new exploration of the Chinese Communist Party on the path of socialism in China. This new exploration gained a broader vision with the end of the "Cultural Revolution" and the rapid increase of China's foreign exchanges. China began to learn from and draw on the experiences of different types of countries in economic construction, and gradually clarified the basic policy of opening up to the outside world.
1. The Emergence of Understanding on Reform and Opening-Up Through Numerous Visits By Chinese Leaders
Starting from 1978, China changed the situation of very few visits by party and government leaders during the "Cultural Revolution". In that year, 13 Chinese leaders at the level of deputy premier or deputy chairman and above led delegations to visit 51 countries 21 times. Among them, Deng Xiaoping himself made four trips to eight countries. These visits not only improved China's foreign relations, but also gave the party and state leadership a more direct and comprehensive understanding of recent international developments. A common strong feeling among the visiting leaders was that China was far behind the world in economic and scientific-technological development.
At the National Science Conference in March 1978, some comrades mentioned that the relationship between the world's economic development and science and technology is closer now, and the development of the national economy and various industries mainly depends on the development of science and technology. One important reason for China's economic backwardness is that its science and technology are backward. Compared with the world's advanced level, China's science and technology are about 15 to 20 years behind in most fields, and even more in some fields. Therefore, if we want to improve the economy, we must first earnestly learn world-advanced technology. If we turn a deaf ear and do not understand the trends and levels of scientific and technological development internationally, it is impossible to talk about catching up with the world's advanced level. These opinions attracted the attention of the leaders of the CPC Central Committee and the State Council.
On May 17, 1978, the State Council established a leadership group to introduce new technology, responsible for studying and formulating plans to introduce foreign advanced technology. Following this, leaders of the State Council and various departments and localities visited and inspected developed western countries and regions to understand their economic development level and experience in economic development. On the eve of the delegation led by Vice Premier of the State Council Gu Mu to visit Western Europe, Deng Xiaoping specifically asked them to make a detailed survey and study, to see the level of their modern industrial development and how they manage their economy, and to learn from the advanced experience of capitalism.
When Chinese leaders went abroad, capitalism had just passed its "golden age" of great development after World War II. In the first half of the 1970s, capitalist countries experienced the most severe economic crisis since the war. In 1974 and 1975, the GDP of the United States, Japan, West Germany, the United Kingdom, France, and Italy all showed negative growth. In the second half of the 70s, the western economy was in a state of "stagflation" and had difficulty recovering. Under these circumstances, developed countries were willing to expand trade with China, provide preferential loans to China, and even invest in China.
Through visits and inspections, these leaders not only saw the gap in economic development, but also saw the international situation at that time providing opportunities for China's development.



After returning to the country, they all suggested to the central government: to make full use of the current favorable conditions, absorb foreign capital as much as possible, introduce a large number of foreign advanced technology equipment, learn from their advanced management experience, and accelerate the speed of our country's modernization. Gu Mu specifically mentioned when reporting the visit situation to the CPC Central Committee and the State Council: Why can't we do it, given that Western Europe took advantage of foreign investment and introduced advanced technology during its economic takeoff? The opinions and suggestions put forward by the comrades above were compiled into documents, circulated among the leaders of the central and national departments, and caused a strong repercussion.
2. The holding of the State Council's Service Virtual Meeting and the proposal of reform ideas
Understanding the world's advanced level has led people to reflect on the experience and lessons of our country's economic construction. How to summarize experiences, how to accelerate the construction speed, has become an increasingly prominent issue before the whole party.
During this period, Deng Xiaoping talked many times: now there is a relatively good international condition, which we can take advantage of, and we should take the world's advanced achievements as the starting point for our development. He criticized the "Gang of Four" for isolating the country from the world and being ignorant of global progress. He argued that our mindset must be updated to face the realities of the world today. He also suggested that not only are we technologically backward, but our management level is low. He cited that our country's system, including the institutional system, basically inherited from the Soviet Union, are outdated. He proposed that many system issues need to be reconsidered. These views gradually became a consensus within the party leadership.
From July 6 to September 9, 1978, the State Council held a service virtual meeting for two months to study how to speed up the modernization construction of China. The responsible persons at the meeting all came up with ideas for accelerating the construction speed and proposed to reform the economic management system and actively introduce foreign advanced technical equipment based on a thorough review of the lessons learned since the founding of New China.
Several leaders who returned from their visits introduced the current international situation and foreign economic development experience; the State Planning Commission proposed to actively expand exports and increase foreign trade ports; the Ministry of Machinery Industry proposed to combine the introduction of new technology with the reform of domestic management systems; the State Labor Bureau proposed to reform the wage system and effectively motivate workers; Hu Qiaomu enumerated the disadvantages of solely relying on administrative methods to manage the economy, suggesting that such methods “should be minimized to a necessary extent, and most economic work should transition from government administration to enterprise operations. The enterprise itself should also minimize the management of pure administrative methods and expand the management based on economic means”.
In the summary speech of the meeting, Li Xiannian explicitly proposed the implementation of the policy of reform and opening up. He pointed out that in reality, the current international situation was very favorable to the country, and it was necessary to have the courage to utilize foreign advanced technology, equipment, capital, and organizational experience to speed up our construction. He suggested not to miss this very rare opportunity. This would be many times faster than trying to explore everything from scratch behind closed doors.
On September 30, central government forwarded this speech and prepared to further discuss it at the upcoming central work meeting.



Soon after the virtual meeting, the National Planning Conference convened by the State Council proposed that the economic front must implement three transformations: First, attention must be shifted to the production struggle and technological revolution from top to bottom; Second, transition from a bureaucratic management system and methods that do not take into account economic effects and work efficiency, to an effective scientific management track that operates according to economic laws and combine democracy and centralization very well; Third, transition from an isolationist or semi-isolationist state that does not engage in economic and technological exchange with capitalist countries, to actively introducing advanced technologies from abroad, using foreign funds, and bravely entering the international market.

On October 11, Deng Xiaoping said in his speech at the 9th National Congress of the Chinese Union: "Achieving the four modernizations is a great revolution that fundamentally changes the economic and backward technological outlook of our country, and further consolidates the dictatorship of the proletariat. This revolution must significantly change the current backward productive forces and must inevitably change the relations of production, the superstructure, and the management methods of industrial and agricultural enterprises, and the state's management methods of industrial and agricultural enterprises, to meet the needs of modern large-scale economy." Therefore, "Every economic front not only needs to undergo major technical reforms, but also major reforms in institutions and organizations. Carrying out these reforms is in the long-term interests of the people. Otherwise, we cannot get rid of the backward state of production technology and production management."

Under the impetus of these ideas, in 1978, our country signed 22 project import contracts with developed Western countries in succession. Although there was a tendency to be impatient for success in the import work, these projects that were introduced have provided advanced technical equipment and a high starting point for China's modernization construction. The introduction of Shanghai Baoshan Iron and Steel Plant's complete set of equipment enables us to learn the world's top-notch production technology and management methods, and shortened the gap between China's iron and steel industry and the world's advanced level by at least 20 years. Both the ideological preparation and the practice showed that the general policy of reform and opening up is ready to emerge.

3. The Emergence and Proposal of the Idea of Shifting the Focus of Work of the Party and the State

The conception of shifting the work focus of the party and the country among the party's top leaders was early. For example, as early as the tenth day after the smashing of the "Gang of Four", on October 16, 1976, Li Xiannian called Chen Yun to solicit his opinions on future work. After discussing with Wang Zhen and Yao Yilin, Chen Yun proposed several suggestions. One of them is to "vigorously boost production, so that the national economy can recover and develop more quickly." This was the earliest known material hinting at shifting the work focus.

In September 1978, after ending his visit to North Korea, Deng Xiaoping made an unusual inspection of the three northeastern provinces and places such as Tangshan and Tianjin. This was an important effort made by Deng Xiaoping to promote a historical turning point.

During the inspection, Deng Xiaoping repeatedly appealed to local leaders, calling for a liberation of thought and seeking truth from facts. They must, under the existing domestic and international circumstances, dare to think about, raise, and solve problems. Don't have forbidden zones as they cause rigid thinking and inhibit consideration of issues according to one's own conditions. In short, seek truth from facts, open up the mind, and carry out a revolution. After introducing advanced technical equipment, they must manage according to the advanced international management methods and economic laws.



We need revolution, not reform, not patching up. We must encourage and educate all cadres to think independently, to boldly reform unreasonable things. Our superstructure cannot but be changed. 
He also reiterated that the most urgent task for China is to develop productivity. We are too poor, too backward, to be honest, we are sorry for the people. We are a socialist country, and the fundamental manifestation of the superiority of the socialist system is that it can allow social productivity to develop rapidly at a speed never seen in the old society, and the people's constantly increasing material and cultural life needs can be met. From the perspective of historical materialism, the results of correct political leadership must ultimately be manifested in the development of social productivity and improvement of people's material and cultural lives. We need to think about how much we have done for the people. Therefore, we must accelerate the development of productivity and improve people's material and cultural lives now.
For this purpose, Deng Xiaoping proposed to timely end the mass movement of "criticizing the Gang of Four" and shift the focus of the party and the state to the construction of socialist modernization. This is a thought of great strategic significance. When he heard the report of the standing committee of the CPC Shenyang Military Region on the movement of "criticizing the Gang of Four", he said: You can study the movement, what is the end? There is no thorough thing forever. The movement cannot last too long, and it will be tired if it lasts too long. There is a bottom to the movement to expose and criticize the Gang of Four. It can't be done for three or five years. When it's almost done, it can be ended and return to normal work. After leaving the Northeast, he reiterated this view to relevant comrades in the Central Committee and received the support of other leading comrades in the Central Committee. Thus, the shift of focus of work had the potential to become a major decision of global significance.
On October 11, Deng Xiaoping made this point more clearly when he spoke at the Ninth National Congress of the Trade Unions. He proposed that the struggle to "criticize the Gang of Four" has achieved decisive victory in a wide range of the country, "we are able to start a new battle on this victory." The Party Central Committee and the State Council are now calling for accelerating the pace of achieving the four modernizations, "This is a great revolution that will fundamentally change the economic and technological backwardness of our country and further consolidate the dictatorship of the proletariat." He hoped that the delegates would "have a deep discussion on the current situation, so as to unite all members, based on the complete victory of the struggle against the 'Gang of Four', to fight for this great task".
At this point, quite a few people have realized that in order to achieve the goal of socialist modernization and quickly implement the brewing reform and opening up, we must shift the focus of the party and state's work to modernization construction. There is basically no disagreement in the party on this point. However, there is still disagreement in the party on the guiding ideology of modernization construction. Some comrades still adhere to the guiding ideology of "two whatevers", thinking that to achieve the four modernizations, "we must insist on taking class struggle as the guide, and carry out the three great revolutionary movements of class struggle, production struggle and scientific experimentation." The majority of comrades, however, argue that in order to carry out modernization construction, we must adhere to the guiding ideology of seeking truth from facts, and first of all, we must rectify the disorder.




The divergence in guiding thoughts has unavoidably caused an intense ideological debate about the shift in work priorities. 

IV. 1978 Central Work Conference and the Third Plenary Session of the Eleventh Central Committee

From the convening of the Central Work Conference in 1978 to the Third Plenary Session of the 11th CPC Central Committee, these are the two significant meetings that had a significant impact on the Party and the country in the process towards a great historical turn after the smashing of the "Gang of Four." Marked by the Third Plenary Session of the 11th CPC Central Committee, the Party and the country embarked on a new great journey of reform and opening up.

1. Convening of the Central Work Conference in 1978

On November 10, 1978, the CPC Central Work Conference was held in Beijing. The attendees included key comrades from all provinces, cities, autonomous regions, major military regions, and central departments, as well as some old comrades who had held important posts in the central government, localities, and the army, a total of 219 people. The participants were divided into six groups by region. This was a very important central meeting in preparation for the Third Plenary Session of the Eleventh Central Committee.

At the opening session, Hua Guofeng announced that the items for discussion at the meeting were: first, to discuss the "Decision on Accelerating the Development of Agriculture" and the "Regulations (Draft) on the Work of the People's Communes in the Countryside;" second, to determine the arrangements for the national economic plan for 1979 and 1980; third, to discuss Li Xiannian's speech at the State Council. Before discussing these items, the Politburo decided to discuss the issue of shifting the focus of the Party's work to the construction of socialist modernization from next year.

In his speech, Hua Guofeng did not mention the discussion of the standard of truth, the change of guiding ideology, or the issue of reversing wrongful convictions, which was widely concerned within and outside the Party at that time. He said that the basis for the shift in focus of work is because the mass movement to expose and criticize the "Gang of Four" on a large scale can now successfully come to an end, and new tasks should be put forward to adapt to the development of the situation. "When the main problems of a stage are solved, we need to move on to a new stage." This means that the shift in focus of work is a change in the stage of work rather than a change in the fundamental guiding ideology and the political line of the Party. Influenced by this, the documents on agricultural issues submitted to the meeting still followed the approach of "promoting revolution and boosting production," using the overall estimate of "continuous bumper harvest for more than a decade" that was popular during the "Cultural Revolution" and obscured the actual facts. Obviously, this way of achieving the shift in focus of work is not satisfactory for those participants who first want to resolve guiding ideological issues and major historical questions.

Starting from the group discussions on November 11, some people raised the issue of redressing major wrong cases such as the "Tiananmen Incident." On the 12th, Chen Yun spoke in the Northeast group, suggesting that historical legacy issues need to be resolved first. He said: The realization of four modernizations is the urgent desire of the whole Party and the people of the country, and stability and unity also matter to the whole party and the people of the country. To ensure stability and unity, "for some remaining issues, issues that have a large influence or involve a wide range, need to be considered and decided by the central government." Following this, he raised six major historical legacy issues, including rectifying 61 people including Bo Yibo, redressing the "Tiananmen Incident," and the conclusions about Tao Zhu and Peng Dehuai. These major issues that are of concern to the Party inside and outside were raised, and caused a strong reaction. The atmosphere of the meeting became lively.



The focus of each group's speech quickly converged on the issue of redressing wrongful and false cases, especially the "Tiananmen Incident." Almost every group proposed that it should be redressed as soon as possible.
Under this circumstance, it was approved by the central government that the expanded standing committee of the Beijing Municipal Committee of the Communist Party of China would officially redress the "Tiananmen Incident" and redress all comrades persecuted for this reason, thereby restoring their honor. On the 15th, Xinhua News Agency reported on this under the headline "The 'Tiananmen Incident' is Completely a Revolutionary Action." On the 16th, major newspapers such as "People's Daily" and "Guangming Daily" published this news, which greatly encouraged the cadres and the masses. Subsequently, provincial committees in Henan, Zhejiang, Jiangsu, and other provinces formally announced: all comrades who mourned for Premier Zhou during the Qingming Festival in 1976 and opposed the "Gang of Four" and were persecuted as a result, would be completely redressed, restoring their honor.
Regarding the issue of redress for other major wrongful cases proposed at the meeting, some comrades pointed out: these were all set by the central government in the past, and it is necessary for the central government to clarify these issues explicitly. Otherwise, there will be resistance among the cadres and masses. It would be best if the central government could clarify these issues before the focus of work shifts.
Under these circumstances, the standing committee of the Politburo discussed the above opinions. On November 25th, Hua Guofeng, on behalf of the Politburo, announced at the meeting that the central government had decided: to publicly and completely redress the "Tiananmen Incident"; to redress major wrongful cases such as the so-called "February Adverse Current" and the "Treason Group of Sixty One People Including Bo Yibo"; to correct the past wrongdoings to comrades such as Peng Dehuai, Tao Zhu, and Yang Shangkun; for major local events, all provinces, autonomous regions, and municipalities directly under the Central Government should deal with them based on the actual situation, the central special case group should conclude its work, and all cases should be handed over to the Central Organization Department; there is strong public anger towards Kang Sheng and Xie Fuzhi, they should be exposed and criticized; and so on. Later, on December 14th, in the central working meeting distributing Hua Guofeng’s speech, further opinions were added, acknowledging that the "counter-rightist reversal trend" was wrong, and all central documents related to "counter-rightist reversal trend" were to be revoked. These decisions basically resolved several major issues that the broad masses of cadres have been calling for in the past two years, and the comrades at the meeting felt immediately relieved. Everyone freely expressed their opinions, and their thoughts were further liberated. Some comrades even suggested that the "Cultural Revolution" should also be re-studied and re-evaluated. They believed that the "Command Center of Liu Shaoqi's Bourgeoisie" didn't exist at all, and the evaluation of the "Cultural Revolution" with "seven points of achievement and three points of error" was unconvincing. However, it is not ripe to discuss fully and resolve this issue at this time.
After solving several major historical issues, heated discussions were held on diverging opinions arising from discussions on the standards of truth. Some comrades still believe that discussing the standards of truth is, in reality, "advocating suspicion of everything and guiding people to discuss Chairman Mao's mistakes, which does not conform to the policy of the Party's Eleventh National Congress." This viewpoint was criticized by most comrades. Many comrades also criticized the people responsible for the "Red Flag" magazine and the Central Propaganda Department, who had a passive attitude in the previous discussion, hoping they would correct their attitude as soon as possible. Everyone felt that the disagreement on this issue was essentially a divergence of two different guiding ideologies; without addressing this issue and distinguishing right from wrong, the shift in work focus would not proceed smoothly. After sharp ideological confrontations, some comrades who previously underestimated the significance of this discussion gradually changed their attitudes and made self-criticisms. Everyone also called for the Central Party to clearly express its stance on this discussion to thoroughly resolve the issue of ideological line.



While discussing other issues, everyone also got rid of the shackles of "two whatevers", carried forward the traditional spirit of seeking truth from facts, and seriously reflected on the guiding ideology and some policy guidelines of the past few years, and boldly put forward criticisms and suggestions.
What kind of ideology should guide the shift of focus in work? This is a very crucial problem. Some comrades believe that "we must still insist on taking class struggle as our guide in our construction efforts". However, many comrades pointed out that the issue of class struggle during the construction period should be reconsidered and clarified. This is a problem that the Party must solve in guiding modernization. Some comrades pointed out: The shift of the work's focus is not a change in the usual nature of the Party's specific work, but a fundamental change of historical significance. Unless there is a war in the future, the struggle for production and technical revolution must be taken as the center, and there can be no other center. Some comrades also questioned the wording of "holding the three major revolutionary movements of class struggle, production struggle, and scientific experiment hand in hand", which has been used for many years, and believed that this wording lacks priorities, and the struggle for production should be clearly put as the center in the future. After heated discussions, most people believe that the issue of class struggle in the period of socialism should be reconsidered, thus paving the way for denying the guideline of "taking class struggle as the basic principle".
While discussing the two agricultural documents, many comrades expressed their strong dissatisfaction with the fact that the documents avoided harsh reality and only talked about the "superiority of the people's communes" and the "continuous bumper harvests for more than a decade". They pointed out that there are nearly two hundred million people in the country whose grain supplies are below 150 kilograms and cannot fill their stomachs. The per capita grain is less than that in 1957. The main reason for this situation is that the past policy is too rigid towards farmers. The development of agriculture is largely hindered by "left" mistakes. Some comrades said: do not be afraid of farmers getting rich. If we think that farmers getting rich will lead to capitalism, then we can only be poor forever, then what are we doing revolution for? Many suggestions to restore and develop agriculture as soon as possible were also put forward. Chen Yun proposed in his speech: within three to five years, "we can import up to 20 million tons of grain every year. We can't be tense everywhere, we have to stabilize the farmers first". "Stabilize this end, that is, stabilize the majority... The world will be greatly settled." "This is the biggest measure in economic measures." These opinions and suggestions received attention from the central government, and the two documents about the agricultural problem were also revised according to everyone's opinion.
While discussing Li Xiannian's summary speech at the State Council's meeting, many people agreed to reform the management system and implement an open policy to the outside world. The meeting printed a batch of materials introducing how foreign countries and our Hong Kong and Taiwan regions have rapidly developed their economies. After reading, many comrades proposed: change the past practice of "neither internal nor external debts", make full use of the international situation favorable to us, absorb as much foreign capital as possible, introduce advanced technology and equipment on a large scale, and speed up the construction. The Standing Committee of the National People's Congress should enact laws regarding the acceptance of foreign loans, borrowings, investments, etc., as soon as possible, and encourage foreign businessmen to co-operate with us. These opinions further concretized the brewing about the policy of reform and opening up, and the conditions for making formal decisions on the reform and opening up have matured.



The conference also discussed issues related to the construction of the Party, the democracy and legal system of the country. Drawing from the painful lessons of the "Cultural Revolution", everyone talked about the need to restore the Party's tradition of democratic centralism, to strengthen socialist democracy and legal construction, and put forward a series of suggestions for strengthening the democratic construction of the Party and the country. 

Deng Xiaoping was watching the progress of the conference. Based on everyone's discussions and the issues raised, he felt that the previously prepared speech was no longer applicable and should be more explicitly focused on the most critical and urgent issues at present. Therefore, he personally wrote an outline, listing seven issues: "(1) Liberation of thought, activation of machinery; (2) Extension of democracy, strengthening of legal system; (3) Looking back in order to look forward; (4) Overcoming bureaucratism, over-staffing; (5) Allowing a part to get better first; (6) Strengthening the responsibility system, setting definite targets; (7) New issues." Based on this outline, several comrades redrafted the speech for him.

On December 13, the conference held a closing ceremony. Hua Guofeng, Ye Jianying, and Deng Xiaoping each gave speeches. In his speech, Hua Guofeng self-criticized the issue of "two whatevers," admitting that "the consideration of these two sentences is not comprehensive enough," and it "restricted everyone's thoughts in varying degrees, which is not conducive to implementing the Party's policy in a pragmatic way, nor is it conducive to activating thoughts within the Party." He announced that after the conference, he  will convene the third plenary session of the 11th Central Committee of the Party to further determine the guidelines and tasks after the shift of the focus of the Party's work.

Ye Jianying proposed three opinions: (1) There should be a good leadership team, especially a good leadership team in the Central Committee. (2) It is necessary to promote democracy, strengthen the legal system, and the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress should take on the responsibility of enacting laws and improving the socialist legal system as soon as possible. (3) Diligently study and liberate thinking. He pointed out: "Our socialist modernization is not only to greatly improve social productivity, but also a profound social revolution from the economic basis to the superstructure." Many people are still not prepared for such a revolution, and their thoughts are not liberated enough. Therefore, "we need to break the superstitions caused by feudalism and liberate our thoughts from bondage."

Deng Xiaoping made an important speech titled "Liberate Thought, Seek Truth from Facts, and Unite to Look Forward". In this speech, he pointed out: "The first is to liberate thought. Only when thought is liberated can we correctly use Marxism-Leninism and Mao Zedong Thought as guidance to solve the problems left over from the past and the emerging series of problems." "Without breaking rigid thinking and greatly liberating the thoughts of cadres and the masses, there will be no hope for the four modernizations."

Regarding the discussion on the standard of truth that the Party has been actively carrying out for half a year, Deng Xiaoping made a summary. He pointed out that the discussion on the issue that practice is the only criterion for testing truth is actually a debate about whether or not to liberate thought. Having this debate is necessary and meaningful, "A party, a country, a nation, if everything comes from a book, with rigid thinking and superstitions, it cannot move forward, its vitality will stop, and it will lead to the extinction of the party and the country." At present, if we want to restore the tradition of seeking truth from facts, we must liberate thinking and overcome the rigid state of thinking formed by various reasons. In this sense, "The debate on the standard of truth is indeed a problem of ideological line, a political issue, a problem related to the prospects and fate of the party and the country."



Deng Xiaoping emphasized: To emancipate the mind and stimulate intellect, a very important condition is to truly implement the democratic centralism of the proletariat. In this period, it is especially necessary to emphasize democracy. We need to create conditions for democracy, and strengthen socialist democracy and the rule of law. This meeting has solved some of the problems left over from the past, clarified the merits and demerits of some people, and rectified a batch of major wrong cases. This is also necessary for the emancipation of the mind. The goal is to look forward and smoothly achieve the shift in the focus of the party's work.

Regarding the upcoming reform, he said: To look forward, we need to study new situations and solve new problems in a timely manner. Now, our economic management work is bloated, overlapping, complicated procedures, and extremely inefficient. Political empty talk often drowns everything. This is not the responsibility of some comrades, but because we did not propose reforms in time in the past. However, if we do not carry out reform now, our modernization project and socialism will be buried.

He also proposed that in future management systems, special attention should be paid to strengthening the responsibility system. For any task or construction project, we need to implement a system of setting tasks, personnel, quantities, quality, and timelines. In economic policy, we should allow some regions and some people to earn more income and live better due to their hardworking efforts and great achievements. This will generate a great exemplary force, influencing neighbors and promoting other regions, and making the entire national economy continuously develop in waves. "This is a major policy, a policy that can influence and drive the entire national economy."

Not only did Deng Xiaoping's speech propose and answer a series of fundamental questions at a historical turning point, and summed up the central work meeting, but it also provided guidance for the upcoming Third Plenary Session of the Eleventh Central Committee. Therefore, this speech actually became the theme report of the Third Plenary Session of the Eleventh Central Committee.

After the closing meeting, the conference continued to discuss for two more days, and ended on December 15. Under the promotion of the older generation of revolutionaries and the joint efforts of most of the participants, the 36-day central work meeting finally broke free from the shackles of the "two whatever" policy, and turned the meeting originally intended to discuss economic work into a comprehensive meeting to rectify and start a new situation.

2. The Convening of the Third Plenary Session of the 11th Party Central Committee

On the basis of the major achievements of the central working meeting, the third plenary session of the 11th Central Committee of the Communist Party of China was held in Beijing from December 18 to 22, 1978. The meeting was attended by central committee members, alternate central committee members, and responsible comrades from central departments, a total of 290 people. Hua Guofeng announced at the opening meeting: The main task of this plenary session is to discuss and pass the Politburo's proposal to shift the focus of the party's work to socialist modernization construction from next January.



The conference approved two documents on agricultural issues, namely, the "Draft Decision of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China on Accelerating Agricultural Development" and the "Regulations for the Work of Rural People's Communes (Trial Draft)"; it also approved the national economic plan for 1979 and 1980; discussed personnel issues and voted to establish the Central Discipline Inspection Committee. Previously, after 36 days of intensive discussions at the central work conference, the participants had reached a consensus on some major issues. On this basis, the conference decided to promptly and decisively end the mass movement across the country to expose and criticize Lin Biao and the "Gang of Four". From 1979 onwards, the focus of the Party's work would be shifted to the construction of socialism modernization. From now on, the class struggle in socialist society should be resolved by following the principle of strictly distinguishing and correctly handling two kinds of contradictions of different nature, in accordance with the procedures stipulated by the constitution and laws. There should be no blurring of the boundaries between the two types of contradictions, nor any harm to the stable and united political situation needed for socialist modernization. 

Under the guidance of Deng Xiaoping's principles of liberating thinking, seeking truth from facts, and uniting and moving forward together, the participants had an in-depth discussion on the party's ideological line. It was unanimously agreed that only by liberating thought, seeking truth from facts, and basing everything on reality, could our party successfully achieve a shift in the central focus of work. The plenary session highly praised the discussion on the criterion of practice being the only test of truth, believing it to have profound historical significance in promoting the liberation of thought among all party members and people across the country, and in rectifying the ideological line.

On the basis of carefully summarizing the experiences and lessons learned since the founding of New China, the participants generally felt that after the shift in the focus of work, the previous management system and methods could no longer be used. Instead, they needed to boldly reform the traditional system and methods according to the needs of modernization construction, and explore new paths of development. The plenary bulletin stated: "Now, we need to take a series of major new economic measures based on new historical conditions and practical experience, and seriously reform the economic management system and operation management methods, actively developing economic cooperation with other countries in the world on an equal and mutually beneficial basis, and striving to adopt advanced global technology and equipment. This puts forth reform and opening up as the overall guideline for the construction of socialist modernization, and the shift in the focus of work is also the beginning of a new revolution through reform and opening up.

When discussing agricultural issues, the plenary session proposed a series of policy measures to promote agricultural development, such as raising prices for agricultural products, and agreed to send the "Draft Resolution of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China on Accelerating Agricultural Development" and the "Regulations for the Work of Rural People's Communes (Trial Draft)" to provinces, autonomous regions, and municipalities directly under the central government for discussion and trial. Through the rewritten documents, a more practical approach was adopted to highlight the backward situation of our country's agriculture, and a series of policy measures for accelerating agricultural development were proposed. Among them, the emphasis was on "respecting the autonomy of production teams," guaranteeing farmers' democratic rights politically, and fully caring for farmers' material interests economically, thereby effectively initiating rural reforms.

When reviewing the national economic plan for 1979 and 1980, the session affirmed the Central Work Conference's opinion on adjusting the national economy and proposed the principle that infrastructure construction must be active and within one's capabilities, thereby beginning to correct the guiding ideology for economic construction.

The session confirmed the Central Work Conference's decision to rehabilitate a series of major wrongful cases and reevaluate the merits and demerits of some important leaders; it reaffirmed the principle of seeking truth from facts and rectifying mistakes in resolving historical issues, thereby initiating the process of redressing all wrongful cases and thoroughly resolving major historical issues before and including the "Cultural Revolution".



The Conference also made a series of decisions to strengthen socialist democracy and legal system construction, improve the Party's democratic centralism, refine Party rules and discipline, and enforce strict Party discipline, proposing to strengthen the socialist legal system and task of democratization and legislation. It emphasized that there should be national law for the country and Party rules and discipline for the Party. All Party members and cadres must comply with Party discipline.

While steadfastly rectifying the "left" errors of the "Cultural Revolution" and before, the Conference affirmed the contributions of Mao Zedong and Mao Zedong Thought. The conference communique stated: The great exploits made by Comrade Mao Zedong in the long-term revolutionary struggle are indelible. It also pointed out that it is not Marxism to expect a revolutionary leader to have no shortcomings or errors, and it does not conform to Comrade Mao Zedong's self-evaluation. The lofty task of the Central Committee on the theoretical front is to lead and educate the whole Party and the people of the whole country to recognize Comrade Mao Zedong's great contributions scientifically and historically, and accurately grasp the scientific system of Mao Zedong Thought, combining the universal principles of Marxism and Mao Zedong Thought with the specific practice of socialist modernization and developing under new historical conditions. This would allow pointing out and correcting the errors of Mao Zedong's later years while respecting the struggle history of the party and the people without losing direction and losing our fundamental standing point.

After serious deliberation, the Conference elected Chen Yun as a member of the Political Bureau, Standing Committee of the Political Bureau, and Vice Chairman of the Central Committee; Deng Yingchao, Hu Yaobang, and Wang Zhen were elected members of the Political Bureau; Huang Kecheng, Song Renqiong, Hu Qiaomu, Xi Zhongxun, Wang Renzhong, Huang Huoqing, Chen Zaidao, Han Guang, Zhou Hui, were added as Central Committee members for recognition at the 12th Party Congress. The Central Discipline Inspection Commission was elected, with Chen Yun as the first secretary, Deng Yingchao as the second secretary, Hu Yaobang as the third secretary, Huang Kecheng as the permanent secretary, and Wang Heshou as the deputy secretary. On December 25, the Political Bureau decided: Hu Yaobang was appointed as the Secretary-General of the CPC Central Committee and Minister of Propaganda Department, Hu Qiaomu and Yao Yilin as deputy secretaries of the CPC Central Committee; Wang Dongxing was relieved of the director of the Central Office.

These organizational measures provide a reliable guarantee for the smooth implementation of the work shift and the implementation of various policies determined by the conference. Although Hua Guofeng was still the chairman of the party at this time, in terms of reflecting the correct guiding ideology of the party and deciding on major policies for reform and opening up and modernization construction, Deng Xiaoping has actually become the core of the party central leadership.

The series of significant decisions made by the Third Plenary Session of the 11th Central Committee in ideology, politics, economy, and organization mark that the Party has re-established the ideological line, political line, and organizational line of Marxism. The conference not only began to comprehensively rectify the "left" errors before and during the "Cultural Revolution" but also laid a solid foundation for the new exploration of the socialist construction path under the correct guiding ideology of the party.

As the focus of the Party and the state's work begins to realize strategic transfer, the guiding ideology of the Party and China's socialist cause has also begun to shift from "taking class struggle as the guideline" to focusing on the development of productive forces, from closed or semi-closed to openness, from a highly centralized planned economic system to a vibrant socialist market economic system, from guiding by Mao Zedong Thought to gradually guiding by Deng Xiaoping Theory. These changes not only sparked a revolution in China that completely changed the face of poverty and backwardness but also broke through the old mode of socialist construction that was behind the times and increasingly rigid worldwide, creating a new path and theory of socialist construction with Chinese characteristics. The report "Liberate the Mind, Seek Truth from Facts, and Unite and Look Forward" by Deng Xiaoping is a declaration of the opening of a new era, a new path, and the creation of a new theory of socialist construction.



After a history of 29 years, China's socialist cause has finally embarked on the road to victorious progress. The Third Plenary Session of the Eleventh Central Committee is a symbol of this great historical transformation and the beginning of a new path and new theories. One statement in the conference's communique stands out: “To achieve the Four Modernizations, we must significantly improve productivity, which inevitably requires changes in all aspects of production relations and superstructures that are incompatible with the development of productive forces, and change all inappropriate management methods, activities and thinking.” With such historical demands, China began a new era of reform and opening up, marching towards a grand era.

Chapter II: Comprehensive Rectification and Adjustment of Social Relations under New Circumstances 

I. Comprehensive Redress of Wronged Cases 

After the Third Plenary Session of the Eleventh Central Committee, with the rectification work and deepening of the chaos by the whole party, the work of mass redress of wrong cases and adjustment of social relations also started, which greatly liberated people's minds and mobilized all aspects of enthusiasm.

1. Further Establishing a Series of Major Policy Principles for Redressing Wronged Cases 

The work of redressing wrongful cases is generally considered to be carried out in two stages. The first stage is from the crushing of the "Gang of Four" to the Third Plenary Session of the Eleventh Central Committee. The rectification of some important historical figures of the party and major events of party history during this stage created favorable political conditions for the impending historical shift. However, this stage of redressing wrongful cases didn't go smoothly. Due to the deep-rooted influence of the mistakes of class struggle within the party, and the maintenance of a series of "leftist" mistakes by Mao Zedong and his "two everywheres" policy by the main leaders of the central committee of the party during these two years, the progress was not smooth and could only be carried out partially and relatively slowly. 

The convening of the Third Plenary Session of the Eleventh Central Committee created conditions for the large-scale redress of wrongful cases. After the meeting, a nationwide large-scale redress of wrongful cases and implementation of cadre policies were quickly carried out. According to public documents released by the Central Organization Department, the work of redressing wrongful cases at this time made breakthroughs in several aspects. 

During the process of redressing wrongful cases and implementing cadre policies, the Central Committee of Communist Party of China issued a large number of important documents, such as "The Notice of Completely Removing the Hats of Rightists", "The Notice of Rectification and Correction of Right Opportunism", "The Notice of Processing Methods for Central Documents involved in Historical Legacy Issues", "The Notice of Public Rectification for the 'Yang, Yu, Fu Incident'," "The Notice of Rectification for the So-called 'North China Mountain-headism'," and "The Notice of Diligently Spreading the Resolution to Rectify Liu Shaoqi". Many documents such as the Central Organization Department's "Investigation Report on the 'Case of 61 People'," Sichuan Provincial Committee's "Notice on Several Issues to be Noted in the Implementation of Policies," Shanghai Municipal Committee's "Requesting Report on Solving the so-called 'January Revolution'," and, the Central Organization Department's "Report on Rectifying the Novel 'Liu Zhidan'," were forwarded and approved.



In these documents and comments, the Central Committee, according to the fundamental principle of seeking truth from facts established by the Third Plenary Session of the Eleventh Central Committee, determined the "Two Don't Cares", that is, any untruthful statements, any incorrect conclusions and handling, no matter when and under what circumstances, no matter which level of organization, who determined and approved, all need to be corrected; "Totally wrong, totally compensated; partially wrong, partially compensated; no wrong, no compensation"; "we need to solve problems and stabilize the situation"; we should deal with political and historical issues in a coarse manner, not entangle in minor details and not leave a "tail"; for the issues of economic compensation such as confiscation of wealth and withholding wages, due to the large quantity, the Central Committee decided to "primarily solve the problem politically, and give appropriate economic compensation"; and a series of major policy principles including "leaders take responsibility, personally take action, and the whole party handles the case".

According to the relevant documents and spirit of the Central Committee, in accordance with the instructions of the central leadership comrades, in order to redress wrong cases and implement cadre policy, the central organization department, or the central organization department in conjunction with the central united front department, the public security department, the ministry of education, the national science commission, the state council overseas Chinese office and other relevant departments, have drafted a series of specific policy provisions for redressing wrong cases and implementing cadre policy.

Before the Third Plenary Session of the Eleventh Central Committee, based on thorough investigation and repeated verification, the Central Organization Department successively drafted policy documents such as the "Notice on Correctly Treating the Families and Children of Persons Under Investigation", "Notice on the Issue that Parents' Serious History and Political Problems Should Not Affect Their Children", "Notice on Implementation of Policies for Rural Grassroots Cadres", and "Notice on Specific Opinions on Implementing the Party's Intellectuals' Policy", forming the basic framework for redressing wrong cases and implementing cadre policy in thinking, guideline, and policy.

After the Third Plenary Session of the Eleventh Central Committee, according to the arrangements of the central government, Hu Yaobang was transferred to be the central secretary-general and the head of the central propaganda department, and Song Renqiong succeeded as the head of the central organization department. With the full development of the work to redress wrong cases and implement cadre policy, the Central Organization Department had encountered new issues in its work, according to the spirit and requirements of the Third Plenary Session of the Eleventh Central Committee, on the basis of thorough investigation and research, it accelerated the research and formulation of policy regulations in the work of redress wrong cases and implement cadre policy. According to incomplete statistics, from 1979 to 1982, by the Central Organization Department, or with the cooperation of relevant central and state departments, nearly thirty specific policy regulations were established on some aspects, which further improved the policy system of redress wrong cases and implement cadre policy.

The formulation and implementation of these guidelines and policies greatly promoted the unification and improvement of understandings of organizations and leaders at all levels to redress wrong cases, and implement cadre policy, standardized the methods and procedures in specific work, gave organizations at all levels the "laws" to follow in redressing wrong cases and implementing cadre policy, and ensured that the work of redress wrong cases and implement cadre policy has developed along a healthy track.

2. Further liberate thoughts, and promote the work of redressing wrong cases.

After the Third Plenary Session of the Eleventh Central Committee, in the work of redressing wrong cases and implementing cadre policy, some units and regional leaders and staff still have some "leftist" poison in their thinking that has not been completely purged, especially under the influence of the two "whatsoever" errors, their thoughts are not emancipated, they are reluctant to study and solve some cases, and they are hesitant to solve some issues that should be solved as instructed by the higher authorities, they even believe that policy implementation has gone too far; in some regions and units, the leadership is negatively resisting rectifying wrong cases and implementing cadre policy due to sectarianism, and they long-term neglect some people's problems, even cover them up. In response to these issues, the relevant central departments, firstly, intensified the effort to implement the spirit of the Third Plenary Session of the Eleventh Central Committee, widely publicized the party's ideological line of liberating thoughts and seeking truth from facts, further purged the "leftist" poison, especially the interference of the "two whatsoever".



The second step is to promote people's liberation of thought, improve the process of rectifying wrongful convictions of significant cases, and enforce cadre policy work through rectifying and redressing significant cases of wrongful convictions, such as the most wrongful court case during the Cultural Revolution - the case against Liu Shaoqi. The redressing of the Liu Shaoqi case significantly liberated the thoughts of the majority of cadres and the masses, powerfully drove the work of rectifying wrongful convictions and implementing cadre policy. The third step involves formulating and issuing documents, clearly stipulating that a severe response will be taken against a small number who resist the spirit of the third plenary session of the 11th Central Committee, stubbornly refuse to take action, or intentionally delay or passively oppose the rectification of wrongful convictions, as well as the implementation of cadre policies due to factional interference.

During the process of overturning wrongful convictions and implementing cadre policies, some leaders and workers have developed a sense of slackness because of their inadequate understanding of the importance, continuity and difficulty of this work. Some even removed their offices without inspection and acceptance. Therefore, party organizations at all levels have strengthened education on the importance and difficulty of reversing wrongful verdicts and implementing cadre policies, which has made them realize the far-reaching historical significance and significant practical significance of reversing wrongful verdicts and implementing cadre policies, and recognize the historical responsibility they shoulder. It is emphasized that you must do a good job until the end, and be responsible for the political life of each comrade. If there is still a wrong case that has not been corrected, then for this comrade, his problem is not resolved at all. We need to rectify each case and person thoroughly and stand the test of history.

In the work of rectifying wrongful cases and implementing cadre policies, the Central Organization Department requires all levels of organization departments to strengthen political and ideological work. Political solutions to problems must be prioritized, not lost in minor details. Strengthen the political care for the targets of policy implementation, strictly follow the Party's policies.

3. New progress in the work of rectifying wrongful cases during the "Cultural Revolution"
Under the guidance of the spirit of the Third Plenary Session of the Eleventh Central Committee, by the end of 1982, the task of rectifying wrongful cases during the "Cultural Revolution" was basically completed, achieving a decisive victory in the work of rectifying wrongful cases and implementing cadre policies. A total of 2.3 million cadres were reviewed and rehabilitated during the "Cultural Revolution", and nearly 20,000 group cases were wrongfully judged, including a batch of major cases that had a major impact on the party, the country and even the world. These cases were handed over to the Central Organization Department from the central special case group, which reviewed a large number of senior cadres. 





All case materials are to be submitted to the Central Organization Department for processing. During the handover process, not a single page of material is allowed to be destroyed. On the morning of December 20, Chen Yeping, Deputy Minister of the Central Organization Department, conveyed the spirit of the handover meeting at the departmental and bureau chiefs' meeting. He made specific arrangements for the receipt and review work, and appointed special personnel to form a receiving agency, which was devoted to this work day and night. By the end of February 1979, the handover work of all case materials was completed. The Central Organization Department received a total of 1730 volumes and 391,363 items of materials transferred by the former central special case group, involving a total of 669 people under investigation.

Subsequently, the Central Organization Department immediately carried out the work of review and rehabilitation. According to statistics, among those included in the central special case investigation, there were 213 officials at the level of deputy ministers of central and national agencies, and deputy governors of provinces, autonomous regions, and municipalities (including those at the same level in the military). Among them, there were 10 members of the 8th Political Bureau, 10 members of the Central Secretariat, 71 central committee members and alternate members (excluding those reviewed by provinces and cities), 7 deputy prime ministers, and a host of marshals and generals who fought in the north and south, as well as secretaries of the original central bureaus, provinces, autonomous regions, and municipalities. Those under inspection were categorized as "serious issues or antagonism" amounting to 320 people, accounting for 47.8% of the total. Faced with such a large number of major cases, it would be impossible to realistically carry out reviews and rectifications in a short time with the power of only the Central Organization Department. As a result, the Central Organization Department adopted the following measures: first, it recalled all the leading comrades who were still working under the supervision of the Central Special Case Group. After the third plenary session of the Eleventh Central Committee, the Central Organization Department had more initiative on this issue. The ones who returned to Beijing were Peng Zhen and Zhang Jieqing couple. The previously imprisoned Wang Guangmei was also brought out. Other comrades were also gradually brought back by their respective units. Second, it adopted the procedure of first assigning work and then reviewing and rehabilitating some comrades, enabling these leading comrades to return to work as soon as possible. Third, according to the principle of handling the cases by the whole party and the mass line, the original units were asked to review the cases, and then the Central Organization Department would examine and report to the central government for approval, thus greatly speeding up the process of review and rehabilitation. Practice has proved that these measures have achieved good results. From 1979 to 1980, 445 people were directly concluded by the Central Organization Department and approved by the Central Government, including a large number of senior leaders such as Peng Zhen, Lu Dingyi, Tao Zhu, Liu Lantao, Xi Zhongxun, An Ziwen, Qian Ying, Hu Qiaomu, Shuai Mengqi, Zhao Yimin, Lin Feng, Tan Zhenlin, Li Lisan, and Wang Renzhong.

2) A thorough rehabilitation of a number of major cases of significant impact has been carried out.

i) The complete rehabilitation of the "July 20th Incident" in Wuhan. The "July 20th Incident" in Wuhan was on July 20, 1967, when workers, peasants, and soldiers in Wuhan took to the streets in a demonstration to oppose the conspiratorial activities of those sent by the "Gang of Four" to agitate against the army, disrupt military-civilian relations, support armed struggle, support smashing and looting, and disrupt production, and they engaged in reasoned struggle with them. Afterwards, Lin Biao and the "Gang of Four" described the "July 20th Incident" as "a thorough counter-revolutionary incident". They falsely accused Wang Renzhong and Chen Zaidao, the main leaders of the Hubei Provincial Party Committee and the Wuhan Military Region Party Committee, as the "backstage" of the "July 20th Incident", and labeled a number of party, government and military leaders as "a handful of capitalist roaders" within the Party and the military. The vast number of cadres and masses who participated in or supported the demonstration were also subjected to brutal persecution.



In the struggle to denounce the "Gang of Four", the Hubei Provincial Party Committee, the Provincial Revolutionary Committee, and the Wuhan Military Region Party Committee, in response to the demands of the masses, considered that Lin Biao and the "Gang of Four" described the "720 incident" as a "counter-revolutionary incident". This was a complete distortion of facts and a confusion of right and wrong. They believed it should be redressed and the false accusations imposed on the People's Liberation Army and the masses should be overturned. They submitted a report to the Central Government on "Request for Handling the Wuhan 720 Incident". In November 1978, the Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party forwarded the report from the Hubei Provincial Party Committee, the Provincial Revolutionary Committee, and the Wuhan Military Region Party Committee, fully vindicating the Wuhan "720 Incident". 

② Redressing the so-called "February Adverse Current" issue. Around February 1967, leaders of the Central Politburo and the Military Commission, including Tan Zhenlin, Chen Yi, Ye Jianying, Li Fuchun, Li Xiannian, Xu Xiangqian, and Nie Rongzhen, criticised the "Cultural Revolution" and its erroneous practices at meetings such as the Central Military Commission meeting and the Central Politburo meeeting. They represented the will of the party members and the people, and fiercely opposed Lin Biao, the "Gang of Four", Kang Sheng, Chen Boda and their associates. However, they were suppressed and attacked under the pretext of the "February Adverse Current". After the Lin Biao group was crushed, Mao Zedong proposed to redress the "February Adverse Current", and indicated that once this issue was clarified, the term "February Adverse Current" should no longer be used. 

③ Redress for the case of the "61 Traitor Group". The so-called "61 Traitor Group" case was an extremely serious political case that caused sensation both domestically and internationally during the "Cultural Revolution". The so-called "traitors" refers to 61 Communist Party members including Bo Yibo who were specially approved by the central government to be released from the Grassland Prison in Beiping in 1936.

④ Redress for the cadres and masses criticised and persecuted in the so-called "January Revolution". The so-called "January Revolution" refers to the plot to seize power by Zhang Chunqiao and Yao Wenyuan from their return to Shanghai on January 4, 1967 to the establishment of the "Shanghai People's Commune" on February 5, where they initiated their machinations from Shanghai. In 1966, Zhang Chunqiao and Yao Wenyuan colluded with Lin Biao, Chen Boda, and Jiang Qing to incite "the creation of opposition to the Shanghai Municipal Committee"".



On January 4, 1967, Zhang Chunqiao and Yao Wenyuan returned to Shanghai, further stoked the idea that "there is no need to hold any more illusions about the Municipal Committee," and "the basic problem at the moment is to take back the leadership from the capitalist-roader faction," etc., creating an atmosphere of overthrowing everything and seizing power. On January 6, they convened the "Overthrow the Municipal Committee Conference" under the pretext of the names of various rebel organizations across the city, criticized the leaders of the Shanghai Municipal Committee, pointed out hundreds of cadres above the bureau level to be humiliated at the meeting, and declared that they no longer recognized Cao Diqiu as the Secretary and Mayor of the Shanghai Municipal Committee. In fact, they had seized the power of Shanghai and established the so-called "Shanghai People's Commune" on February 5. Subsequently, a power-seizing frenzy erupted across the country, many places even degenerated into armed conflicts, causing a severe situation where local party and government leadership organs were paralyzed or semi-paralyzed, and the social order and industrial and agricultural production were further damaged.
The so-called "January Revolution" was a conspiracy meticulously planned by Lin Biao, Chen Boda, and the "Gang of Four", it was an important step in their attempts to seize control of the party across the country.
In December 1978, the Shanghai Municipal Committee decided to rehabilitate Cao Diqiu and all other cadres and masses who were publicly named and criticized in the "January Revolution". In January 1979, the CPC Central Committee forwarded the Shanghai Municipal Committee's "Request Report on Resolving the So-called 'January Revolution' Issue", fully vindicating the cadres and masses who were criticized and persecuted in the so-called "January Revolution".
Ⅴ. Rehabilitation for the "Yang, Yu, Fu Incident". In March 1968, Lin Biao and the "Gang of Four" created the so-called "Yang, Yu, Fu Incident" in order to subvert the party and seize power. They falsely accused Yang Chengwu (Alternate Member of the 8th Central Committee of the CPC, Standing Member of the Central Military Commission, Acting Chief of Staff), Yu Ligong (Political Commissar of the Air Force, Second Secretary of the Air Force Party Committee), and Fu Chongbi (Commander of the Beijing Garrison) of "attempting to reverse the February Adverse Current".  In March 1979, the CPC Central Committee issued a "Notice on Public Rehabilitation for the 'Yang, Yu, Fu Incident'", pointing out that the so-called "Yang, Yu, Fu Incident" was purely a wrongful case fabricated by Lin Biao and the "Gang of Four". The Central Committee decided to publicly rehabilitate for the "Yang, Yu, Fu Incident". All slanders and falsehoods should be overturned; previously issued Central documents are revoked. Due to the case, comrades who were implicated and persecuted to death or disability should be rehabilitated unconditionally and their reputations restored.
Ⅵ. Rehabilitation for the So-called "North China Parochialism". In March 1968, Lin Biao and the "Gang of Four" fabricated the charges of "North China Parochialism" and "Shanxi-Chahar-Hebei Parochialism" during the creation of the "Yang, Yu, Fu Incident". Later, the "Crusade against North China Parochialism" was held in the Beijing Military Region time and again, with the spearhead directly pointing at Nie Rongzhen, Xu Xiangqian, Luo Ruiqing, and Yang Chengwu, who had held major leadership positions in North China. They fabricated crimes on some leaders of the Beijing Military Region, brutally persecuted them, implicated a large number of comrades, messed up people's minds, undermined the unity and construction of the troops, causing serious harmful effects.



In December 1979, the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China issued a notice "On the Rectification of the So-called 'North China Hilltopism,'" pointing out that Lin Biao and the "Gang of Four" maliciously slandered and defamed the glorious history of the Jinji, North China, and Beijing Military Regions, entirely out of their anti-revolutionary political needs. They saw the Beijing Military Region as a serious obstacle to their anti-revolutionary coup, so they frequently stirred up the nasty waves of anti-"North China Hilltopism" and tried every possible means to overthrow the older revolutionary comrades who had worked in North China and some leading comrades in the Beijing Military Region at that time to realize their conspiracy to usurp the party and power. The Central formally announced: The so-called "Jinji Hilltopism," "North China Hilltopism," etc., are pure baseless slanders and should be completely overthrown. All related materials shall be withdrawn. All comrades who have been persecuted and implicated due to this case shall be rehabilitated and their honor restored.

⑦ Rehabilitation of Liu Shaoqi and a large number of comrades implicated in Liu Shaoqi's unjust, false, and wrong cases. The case of Liu Shaoqi, the Vice Chairman of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China and President of the People's Republic of China, is the largest unjust case during the "Cultural Revolution" and in the history of the Republic. After the "Gang of Four" was smashed, a large number of cadres inside and outside the party and the masses demanded and suggested to the Central to review the case of Liu Shaoqi. The Central decided in February 1979 for the Central Discipline Inspection Committee and the Central Organization Department to review the case of Liu Shaoqi. The result was presented in February 1980, and the Fifth Plenary Session of the 11th Central Committee discussed it seriously and unanimously passed the "Resolution on Rehabilitation of Comrade Liu Shaoqi," pointing out: "The original review report imposed on Comrade Liu Shaoqi the 'traitor, spy, scab' three major charges and various other charges, which were fully intended to frame Liu Shaoqi by Lin Biao, Jiang Qing, Kang Sheng, Chen Boda, and others. The decision of the Twelfth Central Committee of the Eighth Session based on this to 'expel Liu Shaoqi from the party forever and revoke his duties inside and outside the party' was wrong." "Comrade Liu Shaoqi was a great Marxist and a proletarian revolutionary who devoted his life to communism. As one of the outstanding main leaders of the party and the state, he has indelible achievements in the construction of our party, the democratic revolution, the socialist revolution, and socialist construction." "All the slanders, false charges, fabricated materials, and words of truth about Comrade Liu Shaoqi in the past should be completely overthrown."

The plenary session decided to revoke the charges imposed on Liu Shaoqi by the Twelfth Central Committee of the Eighth Session and his treatment decision; restore Liu Shaoqi's reputation as a great Marxist and proletarian revolutionary and one of the main leaders of the party and state; and the Central Organization Department will rehabilitate the wrongful, false, and mistaken cases related to Liu Shaoqi. On March 19, 1980, the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China issued a notice "On earnestly conveying the resolution for the rehabilitation of Comrade Liu Shaoqi."

The plenary session required all levels of the party organization to implement this spirit and actively and responsibly continue to solve similar unresolved or not fully resolved issues. To implement the spirit of the Fifth Plenary Session, the Central Organization Department forwarded on April 18, 1980, the Guizhou Provincial Party Committee's "Notice on Rehabilitation and Correction of the Unjust, False, and Wrong Cases Caused by the Issue of Liu Shaoqi, and Well-Committing the Party's Policy," asking all local and departmental cases that were implicated due to Liu Shaoqi's unjust case and other unjust, false, and wrong cases during the "Cultural Revolution," to be completed in the first half of that year. On May 17, a memorial ceremony for Liu Shaoqi was grandly held in Beijing. More than 10,000 representatives of party and state leaders and various aspects of the capital attended the memorial ceremony. Liu Shaoqi's rehabilitation cleared the case, and tens of thousands of people across the country involved in Liu Shaoqi's unjust case were completely rehabilitated. Through the rehabilitation of this unjust case with the greatest impact in the country, the thoughts of the broad masses of cadres were further liberated, and the rehabilitation work of other unjust, false, and wrong cases was promoted.
⑧ Rehabilitation of comrades implicated by the so-called nationwide "First Big Character Poster"..



At the beginning of the "Cultural Revolution", Nie Yuanzi, secretary of the Party branch of Peking University's Philosophy Department, along with others, unjustly accused and attacked the Peking University Party Committee, Lu Ping (Secretary of the Peking University Party Committee), Song Shuo (Deputy Director of the University Science Department of the Beijing Committee), and Peng Peiyun (Deputy Secretary of Peking University Party Committee), which was greatly praised by Mao Zedong. Many, including Lin Biao, Jiang Qing, Kang Sheng, Chen Boda, took this opportunity to fabricate charges against Lu Ping, Song Shuo, and Peng Peiyun and persecute them. Not only was the poster publicized on the radio, but also the People's Daily commentators praised it greatly, causing a very negative impact nationwide. This was a major wrongful accusation in the early stages of the "Cultural Revolution". In February 1979, the Beijing Municipal Committee of the Communist Party of China decided to completely rehabilitate the Peking University Party Committee, Lu Ping, Song Shuo, and Peng Peiyun. In August 1980, the Central Organization Department forwarded the Beijing Municipal Committee's notice on rehabilitating comrades who were framed by the so-called "first big-character poster", and this wrongful case was completely redressed.

The so-called "black party", "fake party" issue was rehabilitated. During the "Cultural Revolution", under the influence of Lin Biao and the "Gang of Four'" extreme left-wing line, the 38th Army underground party organization led by Yang Hucheng was falsely accused of being a "black party", "fake party". Many old comrades in this organization were slandered as "real nationalists, fake communists", and labeled as "traitors" and "spies", and they suffered brutal persecution. After the dissolution of the "Gang of Four", after the investigation by the Shaanxi Provincial Committee, the so-called "black party" and "fake party" issues were completely unfounded. With the approval of the central government, in February 1981, the Central Organization Department forwarded the Shaanxi Provincial Committee's request for the Yang Hucheng's 38th Army underground party organization to be rehabilitated from being accused of being a "black party", "fake party" and for those who were persecuted because of this case to be completely rehabilitated, falsities were refuted, and post-event work was handled well.

Rehabilitation of the so-called "Red Flag Party" issue. During the Yan'an rectification movement in 1943, Kang Sheng forced confessions and fabricated the so-called "Red Flag Party" case. Underground parties in Gansu, Henan, Shaanxi, Sichuan, Hunan, Hubei, Yunnan, Guizhou, Zhejiang, Guangxi and other places were falsely accused of being a "Red Flag Party", and many underground party members were labeled as "spies", "traitors", "insiders". In the later stage of the Yan'an rectification, the central government found that the so-called "Red Flag Party" case fabricated by Kang Sheng was a pure fake case and promptly corrected it. However, a comprehensive conclusion was not made due to the historical conditions at that time. During the "Cultural Revolution", this historical issue was revived, and many comrades were again falsely accused and brutally struggled, some were even persecuted to disability and death. In order to fully solve the lingering issue of the so-called "Red Flag Party", and to eliminate the adverse effects caused by Kang Sheng's fabrication of this fake case, in September 1981, the General Office of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China issued a notice, announcing that the central government decided to officially rehabilitate the underground party organizations in several provinces (autonomous regions) wrongfully accused as the "Red Flag Party", refuted all these false accusations made against these underground party organizations, and completely rehabilitate the comrades who were persecuted because of this case. 

Rehabilitation and restoration of Pan Han-nian's reputation. Pan Han-nian was an old member of our party, who had held important leadership positions inside and outside the party. He made significant contributions to the party's cultural work, united front work, especially in carrying out covert struggle against the enemy, and was highly meritorious. After 1955, due to serious neglect of the peculiarity of covert struggle against the enemy, and confusion of right and wrong boundaries and enemy and self boundaries, Pan Han-nian was erroneously defined as a "spy". He was arrested, examined, and later convicted and sentenced, and expelled from the party; Until he died of illness in 1977, he suffered from wrongful accusation and humiliation for more than 20 years.



The issues involved with Pan Hanyuan have implicated many comrades who worked with him in the past, causing them to suffer long-term injustice. In March 1981, the Central Committee of the Party ordered the Central Discipline Inspection Committee to re-investigate the Pan case. The Central Commission for Discipline Inspection examined and studied various materials for this purpose, and interviewed dozens of comrades who had worked with Pan Hanyuan in the past. The re-investigation showed that the original verdict that Pan Hanyuan was a "traitor" could not be substantiated and ought to be rejected. This was a major wrongful case since the establishment of New China. On August 23, 1982, the Central Committee issued a document to formally declare to the Party: to rehabilitate Pan Hanyuan and restore his honor; anyone who was wrongly implicated in the Pan case should also undergo a fact-based review and rehabilitation, with proper handling of follow-up matters.

(3) Rehabilitation was conducted for a group of party and national leaders, hundreds of provincial and ministerial level officials and many well-known figures from all walks of life.

During the "Cultural Revolution," a large number of the Party and country's important leaders were attacked and persecuted. After the Third Plenary Session, the Central Committee of the Party successively rehabilitated Liu Shaoqi, Peng Dehuai, He Long, Tao Zhu, Peng Zhen, Bo Yibo, Yang Shangkun, Zhang Wentian, Lu Dingyi, Tan Zhenlin, Xi Zhongxun, Huang Kecheng, Wang Renzhong, Song Renqiong, Luo Ruiqing and other party, government, and military leaders. Rehabilitation was also carried out for Qu Qiubai, an early leader of our Party.

Before the "Cultural Revolution", there were a total of 1,253 officials at the deputy provincial and deputy ministerial levels across the country. 1,011 of them, accounting for 81% of the officials at the same levels, suffered setbacks during the "Cultural Revolution". Among them, 453 were framed as "traitors", "spies", "counter-revolutionary revisionists", "agents of the bourgeois headquarters", "executors of the revisionist line", accounting for 36% of the total number (excluding those directly reviewed by the original Central Special Case Group). The so-called reviews of these officials were mostly based on concocted and framed charges or they were exaggerated and mislabeled, leading to serious mental and physical suffering. 40 comrades died with grievances during the "review" period and some became permanently disabled.

After the overthrow of the "Gang of Four", the Central Organization Department, commissioned by the Central Committee, reviewed and adjudicated from 1978 to the end of 1980 the cases of 453 officials at the deputy provincial and deputy ministerial levels.

During the "Cultural Revolution", 85 people who were defined as enemies were all rehabilitated and their honor was restored. Those who had historical problems in the past and were further scapegoated during the "Cultural Revolution" were mostly maintained with the verdict before the "Cultural Revolution". After implementing policies, those comrades who were in good health and capable were put back into leadership positions. Those who were not in good health were properly settled. Those who died innocently were vindicated. For the comrades and their families who were implicated due to the wrongdoing, work was done to eliminate the impact.

(4) Rehabilitation for several central departments that were criticized wrongly or slandered during the "Cultural Revolution". This primarily included: overturning the erroneous verdict on the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China's Foreign Liaison Department implementing "three reductions and one elimination"; completely vindicating the so-called "Yama Palace of the Central Propaganda Department"; removing the hat of "executing the capitulationist line" for the National United Front, Ethnic, Religious Work Department; completely vindicating the wrongful case of calling the former Ministry of Culture a "Ministry of Emperors and Generals, Talents and Beauties, Foreign Dead Persons"; completely vindicating the injustice of the General Political Department of the People's Liberation Army being slandered as "Yama Palace", and revoking the Minutes of the Symposium on Troop Cultural and Artistic Work in February 1966. The forced so-called "execution of revisionist line" verdict on the educational frontline was overturned, and the Summary of the National Education Work Conference in 1971 was revoked; and so on.

After the Third Plenary Session of the Eleventh Central Committee, party organizations at all levels continued to review and vindicate a number of renowned figures from the artistic, sports, scientific, medical, and various other fields.

Second, properly handling historical legacy issues.



Proper handling of historical legacy issues is a vital part of restoring order from chaos and an arduous task in rectifying wrongful cases and implementing cadre policies. Due to the influence of "left" errors in previous political movements and some work mistakes, complicated issues were not timely addressed under the special historical circumstances of the war years, along with other various reasons, creating numerous unresolved issues. According to incomplete statistics, cases left over from the time prior to the "Cultural Revolution" across the country reached as many as millions, involving millions of people and affecting tens of million lives.

With the restoration and promotion of the party's principle of seeking truth from facts, the rectification of wrongful cases, the deep implementation of cadre policies, the demand to resolve issues left over from the history before the "Cultural Revolution" has been increasing, and the call for this has been growing stronger. This is not only the inevitable requirements for the party to liberate its thoughts, seek truth from facts, correct wrongful cases and deeply implement cadre policies, but also directly related to the rectification of wrongful cases during the "Cultural Revolution". Many wrongful cases from the "Cultural Revolution" were in fact deliberately stirred up again by Lin Biao and the "Gang of Four" from issues that had been dealt with in history, causing indefinite escalation. Therefore, the deepening development of rectifying wrongful cases and implementing cadre policies will inevitably involve many issues leftover from history. If these issues are not handled properly, it will be hard to mobilize and give full play to the enthusiasm of these cadres and the masses, the environment of stability and unity will be hard to strengthen and develop, and the principle of seeking truth from facts by the party will not be thoroughly restored and promoted.

Soon after the work to rectify wrongful cases and implement cadre policies began, the issues left over from the "anti-rightist" and "Four Cleanups" movement were already brought to the agenda for review and correction. The Central Committee issued related documents, defined relevant policy regulations, and began to review, correct and resolve legacy issues before the "Cultural Revolution".

After the Third Plenary Session of the Eleventh Central Committee, especially after the principal task of rectifying wrongful cases from the "Cultural Revolution" was basically completed, the focus of rectification of wrongful cases and the implementation of cadre policies shifted to properly handling historical legacy issues. Major legacy issues such as the "anti-rightist", "anti-rightist deviation", "Four Clean-ups", "underground party", "intelligence operatives", "wrongful killings during anti-counterrevolutionary purges in the Soviet area", "Huxi Trotskyist Incident", and the "Central Plains Breakout" were reviewed and handled one after another. This work was basically completed by the time of the Thirteenth National Congress in 1987.

How to actively and properly handle legacy issues relates to whether the rectification of wrongful cases and the implementation of cadre policies can be carried out steadily and healthily, and to whether the general situation of stability and unity can remain stable. For this reason, the Central Organization Department and relevant departments of the central state authorities have taken two main measures in macro-guidance:
1. Endeavor to remove all obstacles and disruptions. In the early stages of handling these legacy issues, the primary resistance and disruption came from the "left". Some people continued to view these issues through a "left" lens, refusing to correct those that were wrongly judged.

After the Third Plenary Session of the Eleventh Central Committee, another problem arose in the process of reviewing and handling: some people took a negate-all attitude and demanded a total overhaul of issues from all political movements since the establishment of New China along with pre-existing historical issues. The calls for this grew louder and the number of letters and visitors increased dramatically, even changing things that should not have been changed. To address these issues, in June 1979, the Central Organization Department convened a "Work Symposium on Implementing Cadre Policy". At the meeting, the leaders of the Central Organization Department made it clear that the wrongful cases from the "Cultural Revolution" and those before the "Cultural Revolution" were different. For the old cases before the "Cultural Revolution", it is necessary to solve them based on the principle of dialectical materialism, historical materialism, the principle of seeking truth from facts, and the principle of correcting mistakes when they occur.



In essence, problems of the time should be treated in the light of the prevailing circumstances, conditions, and policies. A strategy and principle for dealing with historical issues left over from the "Cultural Revolution" were proposed. After the conference, with the approval of the Central Committee, the Organization Department of the Central Committee issued the "Notice on the handling of some cases before the 'Cultural Revolution'". The document stipulates that apart from the correction of wrongful rightists, the rectification of wrongful cases in the anti-right-leaning struggles since 1959, and the review of wrongful cases in the "Four Cleanup" campaign, which were already stipulated by the Central Committee, the remainder of the cases could be handled individually according to the normal scope of work. This was significantly different from the numerous injustices, fraudulent cases, and wrongful cases caused by the serious interference and destruction by Lin Biao and the "Gang of Four" during the "Cultural Revolution". If these old cases were not analyzed historically and tousled up once again, guided by today's policy perspective, a comprehensive review and handling would undoubtedly lead to a confusion between right and wrong. This would lead to unnecessary ideological confusion that could affect stability and unity, and drive a wedge between the party and the masses. Certain old cases should be handled cautiously in light of the different circumstances they were in. 

In January 1983, to further improve the review of historical legacy issues, the Organization Department of the Central Committee organized a symposium in Yichang, Hubei, which was attended by comrades from the Organization Departments of seventeen provinces and municipalities, as well as some central and national authorities. They exchanged experiences on this work, studied difficult problems encountered in the work, put forward suggestions and measures to solve problems, and further defined the policy and tasks of this work. Afterward, the Organization Department of the Central Committee issued a notice, promulgating "Minutes of the Symposium on the Review of Unjust, False and Mistaken Cases of the 'Cultural Revolution'", pointing out that the nature of the unjust, false and mistaken cases that occurred before the "Cultural Revolution", mainly due to the limitations of cognition and work mistakes at the time, is different from the large-scale unjust, false and mistaken cases intentionally created by Lin Biao and Jiang Qing's anti-revolutionary group under the specific historical conditions of the "Cultural Revolution". 

To rectify and correct the unjust, false, and mistaken cases before the "Cultural Revolution" and solve the remaining problems of history, we must comply with the spirit of the Party's Third Plenary Session of the Eleventh Central Committee and the relevant policy provisions of the Organization Department of the Central Committee approved by the Central Committee, "Notices on Some Case Processing Opinions before the 'Cultural Revolution'", in view of the situation at that time, to be historical and comprehensive. It is necessary to analyze specific cases in detail, adhere to truth-seeking and error-correcting, and actively and cautiously correct all the yet unresolved injustices step by step. 

In the work, attention should be paid to preventing two biases: one is to continue to view historical cases from the "left" perspective, not correcting the wrong characterizations, and even if the cases handled and approved by oneself are obviously wrong, they should not be rectified; the other is to deny everything, changing even those that should not be changed. For cases before the "Cultural Revolution", whether they have appealed or not, if the organization finds that there may be mistakes, they should be reviewed, focusing on major cases, important cases, public cases, cases wrongly defined as contradictory to the enemy, cases wrongly expelled from the party, and cases wrongly dismissed from public office. Cases should be handled based on facts and in accordance with the Party's policies. If the main basis of the original conclusion is false, a thorough rehabilitation should be carried out; if the characterization is wrong, correction should be applied; if the facts are clear, the evidence is solid, and the conclusion is correct, or if there is no major discrepancy with the primary evidence and the characterization is basically appropriate, albeit a bit severe, it can remain unchanged, and considerations can be given in terms of their usage and life.



After the rectification of wrongful convictions, it is crucial to resolve issues from a political perspective and do a good job in ideological work, while properly handling the aftermath according to relevant regulations. The two meetings and the documents issued after them have effectively promoted and driven the in-depth development of addressing historical legacy issues.

2. Formulating correct guidelines and policies for dealing with historical legacy issues

Dealing with historical legacy issues bears significant responsibility and policy implications, directly relevant to the recognition, assessment of revolutionaries who made supreme sacrifices for the revolution, and the political destiny of some comrades, which can't be taken lightly. A strict adherence to the central government's guidelines and policies is a must. Therefore, formulating correct guidelines and policies is extremely important.

Under the careful guidance of the central leadership and the older generation of revolutionaries, the Central Party Committee and relevant departments of the Central State organs have successively formulated a series of policies and regulations on handling historical issues, such as the "Notice on Fully Removing the Label of Rightists", "Implementation Plan for Fully Removing the Label of Rightists", "Notice on Rectification and Correction for Those Designated as Right-deviationist", and others. These documents clearly stipulate the principles, guidelines, and policy boundaries for dealing with the historical issues of the Cultural Revolution, strictly specifying the scope, key points, and approval authority of the review process. Practice has proven these policies play an important role in guiding and addressing the historical residue of the Cultural Revolution.

In this work, there were major historical issues directly reviewed and handled by the Central Party Committee, relevant departments of the Central State organs, and certain provinces and cities commissioned by the Central Committee, including the following cases:

(1) The review and rectification of false cases during the "Anti-Rightist" movement. During the 1957 party-wide rectification process, a small number of bourgeois right-wing elements took the opportunity to brag about "letting a hundred flowers bloom", launching reckless attacks on the party and the newly established socialist system, attempting to replace the leadership of the Communist Party. Under such circumstances, the Central Committee decided to counterattack against the right-wing. This was necessary and correct. But the 'Anti-Rightist' movement was severely inflated, and a large number of intellectuals, patriots, and cadres were mistakenly labeled as 'rightists', which had unfortunate consequences. As Deng Xiaoping pointed out, "The problem lies in that as the movement evolved, it was inflated, the scope of the attack was too wide, and the severity was too extreme. Many people were indeed improperly handled, their treatment was too severe, they were wronged for many years, they could not demonstrate their talents and wisdom for the people, which is not only a loss for them personally, but also for the entire country."

In 1959, the Central Committee issued instructions on gradually removing the label of 'rightists' in separate stages and batches. By 1964, the label of 'rightists' had been removed for most of the people who were mistakenly labeled.

After the "Gang of Four" was crushed, the issues of removing the 'rightist' label and correcting mistakes were raised again during the work of redressing wrongful cases and implementing cadre policies. At that time, because the 'left' thought restriction hadn't been broken and the "Cultural Revolution" hadn't been thoroughly negated, it was challenging to deal with this issue properly – there was great resistance, many disputes, and an extremely difficult situation.

In the spring of 1978, relevant departments of the Central State organs held a meeting in Yantai, Shandong, to discuss how to properly deal with the historical issues of the "Anti-Rightist" movement. At the meeting, there was a consensus on the issue of 'removing the hat', but opinions on correcting the wrongful labeling of 'rightists' were not unanimous. After the meeting, the United Front Work Department of the Central Committee and the Ministry of Public Security drafted a "Request Report to the Central Committee on Fully Removing the Label of Rightists".



After research and approval, in April 1978, the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China issued the "Notice on Completely Removing the Labels of Rightists," and decided to remove the labels of all remaining rightists.

Later, at the insistence of Hu Yaobang, the Central Organization Department reported to the Central Committee, suggesting to rectify the mistakenly labeled rightists according to the principles of seeking truth from facts and correcting mistakes. To this end, in August 1978, the relevant departments of the central government convened a meeting again to study the issue of rightists' rectification. At the meeting, some people still insisted on only "removing the label" and not rectifying. Some believed that past right and wrong is a thing of the past, and there is no need to clear accounts anymore, just to remove the labels and treat everyone as one of us. Some thought that each place and each department should leave some "models" no matter what, and not all should be changed. Some even said, if hundreds of thousands of rightists were rectified, wouldn’t it mess up the entire party? Comrades who insist on both "removing the label" and rectifying, believe that we must adhere to the principles of seeking the truth from facts and correcting mistakes, and pointed out that only by rectifying all wrong cases can we distinguish right from wrong, enhance unity, and promote the development of our cause. After a heated debate, the latter view was approved by the vast majority of comrades present.

In September 1978, the Central Committee adopted the "Implementation Plan for the Central Decision on Removing All Rightist Labels" drafted by the Central Organization Department, the Central Propaganda Department, the Central United Front Department, the Ministry of Civil Affairs, and the Ministry of Public Security based on principles of seeking truth from facts, punishing any rebellion, and correcting any mistakes. The plan set the direction and established basic policies and methods to correctly handle the aftermath of the Anti-Rightist Campaign.

In order to carry out the work of "removing the label" and rectification of the rightists, the "Label Removing" office was jointly established by the Central Organization Department, the Central Propaganda Department, the Central United Front Department, the Ministry of Public Security, and the Ministry of Civil Affairs. The Central Organization Department set up a Rightist Rectification Office to be specifically responsible for this work. Speaking under pressure and overcoming obstacles, the old generation of revolutionaries, represented by Deng Xiaoping, gave great support to this work. Deng Xiaoping emphasized: "Completely removing the label of rightists, correcting most people's handling, and assigning them proper work is a very necessary and major political measure."

Under the correct leadership of the Central Party Committee, with the firm support of the old generation of revolutionaries, and the joint efforts of the relevant departments of the central government, through hard and meticulous work, the ice was finally broken which was preventing the removal of all labels of rightists and the rectification of mislabeled rightists.

In February 1979, the Central Organization Department and the Central United Front Department jointly held a national experience exchange conference on the review and rectification of rightists. Units like the Central Party School, the Ministry of Public Security, and the Henan Yongcheng County Committee shared their experiences on rectifying and reviewing the past with liberated thoughts. The leaders of the Central Organization Department and the Central United Front Department also spoke at the meeting, elaborating on the great significance of handling historical legacy issues in a pragmatic way in accordance with the spirit of the Third Plenum of the Eleventh Central Committee. For the first time, they raised the issue that "the anti-rightist struggle in 1957 made the mistake of overreaching." They emphasized that "correcting the mislabeled rightists is to correct our mistakes in the 'anti-rightist' struggle," and "no matter which level of organization or individual approved the case, any mistake should be corrected." This was not only an experience exchange meeting but also a meeting for thought liberation. Subsequently, similar meetings were held in each province, autonomous region, and municipality, and even counties.



Subsequently, the party central committee issued a notice on the policy issues of the aftermath work such as the resettlement after the correction of the wrong denomination of the rightists, in response to the new situations and prominent contradictions that emerged in this work. This resolved more thoroughly the issues left over from the "anti-rightist" struggle in terms of policy stipulations. By the first half of 1981, this work was successfully concluded, with the rightist issues of over 540,000 people being rectified nationwide, representing more than 98% of the original total of 550,000 rightists. For the 270,000 people who lost their public offices, their offices were reinstated, work was arranged again or their lives were settled, and those who were improperly arranged for work were adjusted. In addition, policies were implemented for over 315,000 "middle-rightists" and "anti-socialist elements" and their family members affected by genetic discrimination. The successful completion of this work not only "liberated" hundreds of thousands of comrades who were wrongly designated as rightists, but also alleviated the pain of countless family members and friends affected by genetic discrimination, inspiring their enthusiasm for the construction of socialism.

(2) Review and rectify wrongful cases in the "anti-rightist" struggle. From July 2 to August 16, 1959, the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China successively held expanded Politburo meetings and the eighth plenary session of the eighth Central Committee in Lushan, Jiangxi, the so-called "Lushan Meeting". In the later stage of the "Lushan Meeting", a wrongful criticism of Peng Dehuai was initiated, which led to a wrongful "anti-rightist" struggle across the party. The resolution of the eighth plenary session of the Eighth Central Committee on the so-called "anti-party group of Peng Dehuai, Huang Kecheng, Zhang Wentian, Zhou Xiaozhou" was completely erroneous. The resolution proposed to transfer comrades such as Peng Dehuai from work posts such as the Ministry of National Defense while retaining their roles as members of the Political Bureau, to observe the effects. The conference also passed a resolution "To Defend the Party's General Line and Struggle Against Rightist Opportunism". The resolution believed that "rightist opportunism has become the main danger in the party at present. Uniting the whole party and the people of the whole country, defending the general line, and repelling the attack of rightist opportunism has become the current main task of the party." As a result, the "anti-rightist" struggle was extended to the whole party. In the "anti-rightist" struggle, a large number of party members and cadres were erroneously criticized and handled, and some comrades were wrongly categorized as rightist opportunists. During the "Cultural Revolution", under the influence of the extreme left trend, these comrades were again subjected to persecution, criticism, and various punishments.

The "anti-rightist" struggle was a major error in the political life of our party since the founding of New China. It seriously damaged the democratic life within the party from the central to grassroots level, wrongly attacked a large number of comrades who dared to seek truth from facts, reflect the actual situation to the party, and proposed critical opinions, supported exaggeration and lying tendencies, and fostered the development of personality cult within the party.

Although after the conference of 7,000 people in 1961 and 1962, the central government decided to distinguish those who have been identified as rightist opportunists (or rightist opportunism errors) since 1959, a large amount of work has been carried out, and many people have been redressed and corrected. However, since the "left" error at the time was not fundamentally rectified, the rectification was not thorough. Later, after the tenth plenary session of the eighth congress, due to the proposal to oppose the wind of rightist reversal of verdicts, this work essentially came to a halt. In the "Four Cleanups" campaign and the "Cultural Revolution" campaign, under the influence of the extreme left trend, many places re-labelled people who were redressed and corrected in 1961 and 1962 as rightist opportunists or rightist opportunism errors, and subjected them to criticism and struggle. For those who have not been redressed and corrected, they are therefore subjected to harassments, parades, or disciplinary sanctions, and many people are subjected to various penalties such as expulsion from the party, demotion, pay cuts, re-education through labor, and dismissal from public office.

After crushing the "Gang of Four", at the beginning of redressing wrongful cases and implementing cadre policy, some old comrades proposed suggestions and requests to redress comrades who were wrongfully criticised in the "anti-rightist" struggle. The third plenary session of the eleventh CCP Central Committee redressed Peng Dehuai. In July 1979, the central government officially issued the "Notice on the Rectification and Redress of Rightist Opportunists".



The notice emphasizes that, since the "anti-rightist" struggle of 1959, those who have been labelled as rightist opportunists or made errors due to reflecting the actual situation or expressing different opinions within the party, should be rehabilitated and corrected across the board. Policies regarding both political and livelihood treatment should be properly implemented.

After the document was issued, per the Central Committee's plan, the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection was responsible for, and assisted by the Central Organization Department, promptly and properly handling the lingering issues from the "anti-rightist" movement.

(3) Review and correct the wrongful cases during the "Four Clean-ups" campaign. The "Four Clean-ups" campaign was a large-scale mass movement led by the party. The central working conference in February 1963 decided to conduct a socialist education movement with the "Four Clean-ups" (cleaning up accounts, inventory, finances, and work points) as the main content in rural areas; and the "Five Anti's" (against corruption, speculation, waste, decentralization, and bureaucracy) movement in cities. The central working conference from late 1964 to early 1965, under the leadership of Mao Zedong, discussed and established some issues on the "Twenty-Three Points" in the rural socialist education campaign. This document also defined "Four Clean-ups" as cleaning politics, economics, organizations, thoughts. It emphasized that the nature of this movement was to resolve "contradictions between socialism and capitalism," suggesting the focus was to rectify "those in power within the party who are on the capitalist road," and other even "more left" perspectives. Although the "Four Clean-ups" campaign played a certain role in resolving issues such as the official style and economic management, it categorized different types of problems as class struggles or reflections of class struggle within the party, resulting in numerous grassroots officials being wrongfully implicated. During the "Cultural Revolution," Lin Biao and the "Gang of Four" took advantage of the situation to create chaos, further exacerbating the problem.

In May 1978, Li Jingquan, the first secretary of the former Southwest Bureau, submitted a report to the central government titled "About the Remaining Issues during the 'Four Clean-ups' Campaign in Guiyang City." Deng Xiaoping instructed, "Agree with this report, this issue seems suitable for the Organization Department to discuss a handling policy and method with the Provincial Committee and report to the Central Committee." The Guizhou Provincial Committee submitted to the central government "Request for the Situation and Treatment Opinions on the Remaining Issues during the 'Four Clean-ups' Campaign in Guiyang City" in July of that year. In August of the same year, the Communist Party of China Central Committee replied agreeing to the Guizhou Provincial Committee's report. The Central Committee pointed out: In the "Four Clean-ups" campaign in Guiyang City, some comrades were wrongly characterized and handled redundantly, confusing two different types of problems and hurting some comrades. Now, it is very necessary to correct these matters pragmatically, which is beneficial to restore and carry forward the good traditions of the party, implement party policies, motivate the activity of cadres and party members, and enhance unity. Work with comrades who participated in the "Four Clean-ups" work and comrades who were criticized or punished during the "Four Clean-ups" should be well done. They should not pursue personal responsibility and should not care about personal grievances.

A proactive and cautious approach must always be adopted to rectify wrongful cases in the "Four Clean-ups," both to resolve issues and stabilize the situation. Emphasis should be placed on solving problems politically, promoting stability and unity, and developing a great situation. After that, the Central Organization Department proposed some specific regulations and work requirements for re-checking and redressing wrongful cases in the "Four Clean-ups" campaign. In accordance with the spirit of the Central Committee, various regions and departments across the country began to review and correct wrongful cases in the "Four Clean-ups".



Given the great disparity between the "Four Clean-ups" campaign in Guizhou in 1964 and the rest of the country, and its unique nature, in December 1983, the Guizhou Provincial Party Committee once again submitted a "Request Report on Thoroughly Solving Guizhou's 'Four Clean-ups' Issues" to the Central Organization Department, asking for approval from the Central Committee again. Entrusted by the Central Committee, the Central Organization Department drafted a reply to the Guizhou Provincial Party Committee, "Response to the Solution of Guizhou's 'Four Clean-ups' Issue (Draft Opinion)", which, after approval by the central government, was formally replied to the Guizhou Provincial Committee in the name of the CPC Central Committee in June 1984. The response pointed out: "The 'Four Clean-ups' campaign in Guizhou in 1964 was carried out under the guidance of 'left-leaning' erroneous thinking. The assessment and analysis at that time that the Provincial Committee had committed mistakes of a right-leaning opportunist line, and 'Guiyang Municipal Committee has formed a reactionary two-faced regime', was completely wrong. Based on this, the wrongful cases created are completely correct to be thoroughly reversed." According to the spirit of the relevant central regulations, "The erroneous conclusions and telegrams concerning Guizhou's 'Four Clean-ups' issue have all become invalid on their own." "The Central Committee believes that the leaders of the Guizhou Provincial Committee, Guiyang Municipal Committee, and other places where the 'Four Clean-ups' campaign was launched are all good comrades, and the two thousand cadres selected by the Central Committee to participate in the 'Four Clean-ups' in Guizhou at that time are also good comrades. Currently, strengthening unity among cadres is of utmost importance for starting a new situation in Guizhou's work." From then on, all provinces, autonomous regions, and municipalities directly under the Central Government, in accordance with the spirit of the central government, carried out comprehensive and thorough reviews and corrections of wrongful cases in the "Four Clean-ups" campaign. A total of more than 630,000 wrongful cases in the "Four Clean-ups" campaign were reviewed and corrected nationwide.

(4) Properly handling the legacy issues of the underground party. At the beginning of the establishment of New China, during the general cleanup of underground party organizations, some places, due to insufficient understanding of the complexity of underground struggle, lack of understanding of the historical environment and characteristics of underground struggle, and errors in their work, wronged some underground party comrades and treated them unfairly, creating many legacy issues. In the "Cultural Revolution", some underground party comrades were also slandered and persecuted. In July 1981, Hu Yaobang endorsed a letter saying, "We should handle the historical legacy issues of the underground party well and solve them fairly and squarely. Please start with Fujian first." The Central Organization Department sent letters to Fujian and other relevant provincial party committees, conveying Hu Yaobang's instructions. The Fujian Provincial Party Committee attached great importance to this issue. Under the responsibility of the Provincial Party Secretary, it took more than three years to thoroughly investigate and properly handle the legacy issues of the Fujian underground party.

The Yunnan Provincial Party Committee also immediately set about solving the legacy issues in Yunnan's cleanup of underground party work, following the spirit of the instructions. In March 1982, the Central Organization Department issued the Yunnan Provincial Party Committee's "Report on Solving the Historical Legacy Issues of Yunnan's Underground Party and 'Border Verticals'" and "Report on Restoring the Political Reputation of Comrade Zheng Boke", both approved by the Central Committee. All slanders against the Yunnan underground party and "Border Verticals" imposed by the provincial military control committee and the provincial revolutionary committee during the "Cultural Revolution" were completely overturned, and a large number of wrongful cases were thoroughly redressed. At the same time, they also resolved the inappropriate conclusions made against the Yunnan underground party and the "Border Verticals" in several political movements before the "Cultural Revolution", and resolved the erroneous criticism of Zheng Boke, the main person in charge of the Yunnan underground party by the Provincial Party Committee in the 1950s. It fully affirmed the Yunnan underground party and "Border Verticals" for their hard work, a lot of work done, significant achievements made, and contributions to the liberation of Yunnan in the remote multi-ethnic border areas far from the central government. In August 1982, the Central Organization Department also approved the release of the Shaanxi Provincial Party Committee Organization Department's "Report on the Situation of the Northwestern United University Underground Party Organization and Opinions on Handling the Party Membership of Related Personnel".



Based on the careful summary of the experiences in properly handling the historical problems left over by the underground party in the above areas, in December 1984, the Central Organization Department convened a symposium on handling the historical issues of the underground party in 16 provinces, autonomous regions, and municipalities directly under the Central Government to conduct serious research and deployment of the work. After the meeting, with the approval of the Central Secretariat, the Central Organization Department issued a notice on the issuance of "Summary of the Symposium on Handling the Historical Problems of the Underground Party" (referred to as "Summary"). The "Summary" affirmed that the underground party organizations and the guerrilla forces led by the underground party across the country bravely fought in the white terror for a long time and made due contributions to China's liberation cause. 

It pointed out that the historical problems left over by the underground party mainly referred to the underground party organizations established before the local liberation or the guerrilla forces led by the underground party, secret peripheral organizations and their members, which were formed due to wrongful treatment, presenting false, wrongful cases, and remaining party membership issues. To handle these issues, we must follow the "Resolution on Several Historical Issues of the Party Since the Founding of the Nation" and the spirit of central related policies and instructions, adhere to the principle of "seeking truth from facts, correcting mistakes when found," and resolve them with fairness and integrity. It emphasises the importance of defining right from wrong, solving problems, fostering stability, and unity. No individual responsibility will be pursued. Emphasize solving politically, for comrades who have been wronged for a long time, appropriate remedies should be made in terms of political and living conditions. 

The "Summary" also proposed opinions on several issues in the work of dealing with the historical issues of the underground party. Afterward, this work was widely unfolded across the country. In November 1985, the Central Organization Department issued a "Notice on Urgently Handling the Historical Issues of the Underground Party", requiring local organization departments to continue to handle the historical issues of the underground party based on the central spirit of basically completing policy implementation before the Thirteenth Party Congress. Also, it answered the questions about the living allowances related to the comrades of the underground party who have been wronged for a long time. 

Under the correct leadership of the Central Committee and the concerted efforts of the related provinces and cities, this work basically ended before the Thirteenth Congress, and the historical issues of the underground party were properly handled, restoring the revolutionary image of the underground party, clarifying right from wrong, and strengthening party unity. 

(5) Serious implementation of the policy about intelligence and investigation personnel. This is an important task in the later stages of the work of rectifying wrongful cases and implementing cadre policies. The Party's intelligence and investigation work, whether in the war years or the construction years, played an important role in revolution and construction. However, since the founding of New China, in various political movements, especially during the "Cultural Revolution", due to the "leftist" thought influence and work mistakes, the special circumstances of intelligence and investigation work were neglected, causing many intelligence and investigation personnel as well as leading cadres to be wrongly handled, resulting in a lot of wrongful cases. 

Since the Third Plenary Session of the Eleventh Central Committee of the Party, local party organizations have corrected some wrongful cases among intelligence and investigation personnel in the work of rectifying wrongful cases and implementing cadre policies, especially the significant impact of the Central Committee's rectification for Pan Han-nian, who suffered from injustices for many years. However, the historical issues left over by intelligence and investigation personnel are relatively complex. Some areas and departments, due to a lack of understanding of the Party's policies, practices, and features of intelligence and investigation work, and a lack of policy basis to handle the problems that intelligence and investigation personnel experienced under specific conditions, hence some wrongly handled intelligence and investigation personnel's issues and aftermath work have not been resolved, or were not thoroughly resolved. 

To this end, the party group of the State Security Department and the Central Organization Department submitted a "Request Report on Seriously Implementing the Intelligence Investigation Personnel Policy" to the Central Secretariat in April 1986. The Central Secretariat instructed that implementing the policy for intelligence and investigation personnel is a serious political task that all parts and relevant departments should seriously implement. In implementing the policy, the special nature of intelligence work should be fully taken into account. According to the policies and strategies of our party's struggle against the enemy at different times, closely combined with the historical environment and actual situation at that time, we should comprehensively analyze and investigate in a realistic manner..




Specific issues should be handled in the spirit of 'preferred simplicity over complexity' and 'leniency over severity'. In May of the same year, with the consent of the Central Committee, the General Office of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee forwarded this request report. In July, the National Security Department and the Central Organization Department jointly held a symposium in Beijing on the implementation of the policy for intelligence officers in provinces, autonomous regions, and municipalities directly under the Central Government. The symposium focused on implementing the central directive for intelligence officers and the notification from the General Office of the CPC Central Committee. It further deepened the understanding of the importance of this work, clarified the guiding ideology and measures for the work, and made relevant work arrangements. After the meeting, the implementation of the policy for intelligence personnel was launched in 24 provinces, municipalities, and districts nationwide, and the relevant ministries of the central state organs.

Each province, municipality, and district attaches great importance to this work. Some provinces have even established special organizations to carry out this task. However, due to the uniqueness, complexity, and difficulty of implementing the policy for intelligence officers, this work was not completely finished until the early 1990s. Nationwide, many cases of injustice were righted, and policies for intelligence officers were implemented for thousands of people, achieving remarkable results.

The nationwide rectification of unjust cases and the implementation of policies for intelligence officers is unprecedented in the history of intelligence work and has achieved significant results. This fully reflects the party's care for intelligence officers and the spirit of thorough responsibility, relieving the comrades and their families who had been wrongly dealt with of their years-long burdens. This has played a positive role in winning over friends, consolidating comrades, stimulating enthusiasm among comrades in the intelligence front, enhancing cohesion, and promoting the development of national security work.

(6) Exoneration for the novel "Liu Zhidan." At the Central Working Conference in Beidaihe in 1962 and at the Tenth Plenary Session of the Eighth Central Committee, the unpublished novel "Liu Zhidan" was criticized due to the instigation of Kang Sheng. After the meeting, the writing of this novel was communicated as an anti-party event within the party, and long-term special case examinations were carried out on the novel itself, the novel's author Li Jiantong, Xi Zhongxun, Liu Jingfan who reviewed the manuscript, and comrades from the Worker Publishing House who organized the creation of the novel. The special case examination had not ended by the time the "Cultural Revolution" began, and no formal conclusion was made. During the "Cultural Revolution," Kang Sheng, in collaboration with Lin Biao and the "Gang of Four," launched a larger scale of political persecution on the issue of the novel "Liu Zhidan." Yao Wenyuan published an article declaring "Liu Zhidan" an anti-party novel and stating that the author and the comrades who supported the book were anti-party elements. Subsequently, the comrades who had been under special case examination suffered even more serious devastation, and the number of people implicated increased. Those who had read the manuscript and supported the creation of the novel, including a group of old cadres and party members from the original Shaan-Gan revolutionary base area, and even some comrades who had participated in the special case examination, suffered varying degrees of persecution, and some were persecuted to death. Li Jiantong was identified as a "key member of the anti-revolutionary group active in anti-party activities by using the novel, induced by Xi Zhongxun." Until May 1977, a review conclusion given to Liu Jingfan by the Central Special Case Group still claimed that Liu Jingfan "threw out the anti-Party novel 'Liu Zhidan' in collusion with Xi Zhongxun, intending to overthrow Gao Gang."

In 1979, the Central Organization Department reviewed the case, and the facts showed that novel "Liu Zhidan" (submitted for review) was not an anti-party novel but a relatively good novel praising the older generation of proletarian revolutionaries and depicting the history of revolutionary struggle. Xi Zhongxun and other comrades' attention to the creation of this novel and their suggestions on how to improve it were completely legitimate and cannot be said to be activities of any anti-party plot group. Looking at the entire case, the so-called use of writing novel "Liu Zhidan" for anti-party activities case was a major wrongdoing created by Kang Sheng and was a modern literary prison case caused by Kang Sheng, in collaboration with Lin Biao and the "Gang of Four" during the "Cultural Revolution," which implicated many people. Therefore, in August 1979, the Central Committee endorsed the report from the Central Organization Department on the exoneration of the novel "Liu Zhidan."



By publishing articles in newspapers to clarify right from wrong, comrades who have been unjustly accused are vindicated, and follow-up work is done, this major wrongful case has been justly resolved, greatly touching the hearts of the public. 
(7) The so-called "Peng, Gao, Xi Anti-Party Group" was rectified. The so-called "Peng Dehuai, Gao Gang, Xi Zhongxun Anti-Party Group" was fabricated by Kang Sheng after the 10th plenary session of the 8th CCP Central Committee in the special case review of Xi Zhongxun. He abused his power, issued "instructions", made false accusations, and launched a series of activities to denounce the "Peng, Gao, Xi Anti-Party Group." In 1965, the "Outline for Xi Zhongxun's Anti-Party Issue" approved by Kang Sheng was distributed and communicated among leaders at all levels, with the so-called "thorough purge of the evil influence of Peng, Gao, and Xi." As a result, not only were Peng Dehuai and Xi Zhongxun slandered and persecuted, but also a group of comrades who had worked with them were implicated.

During the "Cultural Revolution", Kang Sheng, Lin Biao, the "Gang of Four" and their proxies in Shaanxi, further played up the so-called "Peng, Gao, Xi Anti-Party Group" issue, claiming that the "enemy situation in Shaanxi was serious", and that "Peng Dehuai, Gao Gang, and Xi Zhongxun used Xi'an, Shaanxi as their rear base". Under the name of "cleaning up the team", they conducted actions like "checking the dark line", "digging up the dark root", painted the original Northwest Bureau, the Shaanxi Provincial Party Committee, Shaanxi People's Committee, Xi'an Municipal Committee, and the Municipal People's Committee as "five black nests", treating them as the "old forces" of Peng, Gao, and Xi and "thoroughly smashed" them. Many of the members of the four standing committees of the Provincial Party Committee since the founding of New China were branded by them as "traitors", "spies", and the "die-hard followers of Peng, Gao, and Xi." They put more than fifty leading cadres of the Northwest Bureau, Shaanxi Provincial Committee, and Xi'an Municipal Committee into prison, fabricated crimes and persecuted them in a fascist manner.

In 1979, after reexamination by the Shaanxi Provincial Party Committee, the so-called "Peng, Gao, Xi Anti-Party Group" was extremely absurd and purely defamatory, causing many wrongful cases and causing significant harm and impact on the work in Shaanxi. Although Peng Dehuai has been exonerated by the Central Committee, and the issue of Xi Zhongxun has also been resolved, given the wide-ranging implications of the so-called "Peng, Gao, Xi Anti-Party Group" issue in Shaanxi and the strong public reaction, the CPC Shaanxi Provincial Committee believes that it is still necessary to solemnly announce the complete exoneration of this false case. In January 1980, with the approval of the CPC Central Committee, the Organization Department of the CPC Central Committee forwarded the "Proposal Report on the Complete Rectification of the so-called 'Peng, Gao, Xi Anti-Party Group' Issue" from the CPC Shaanxi Provincial Committee, to completely and thoroughly rectify this false case.

(8) Properly dealing with the issue of innocent victims in the purge in Soviet areas. The issue of innocent victims during the purge in Soviet areas is a major historical issue that has wide implications and involves many people. From 1930 to 1935, under the influence of the "left-leaning" erroneous line, several major Soviet areas, including the Central Soviet Area, West Hunan-Hubei, Hubei-Henan-Anhui, West Fujian, Sichuan-Shaanxi, and Shaanxi-Gansu, launched campaigns to purge "8th Regiment", "Reorganization Faction", "Social Democratic Party", "Third Party", and "Cancellation Faction". Many comrades were wrongly jailed and killed. The resolution on certain historical issues at the 7th Plenary Session of the 6th Party Congress in 1945 explicitly stated:
"Due to the mingling of erroneous anti-spionage policies and sectarianism in cadre policies, a large number of excellent comrades have been wrongfully dealt with and framed, resulting in extremely regrettable losses within the Party." "All comrades who have been unjustly treated and framed after investigation should be exonerated, party membership should be restored, and they should be memorialized by comrades." But due to historical limitations, this problem was not able to be resolved before the founding of New China.



After the establishment of New China, in 1954, the central government proposed suggestions on how to properly address this issue. The internal department of the central people's government issued "Notice on the Handling of Wrongfully Executed Persons and Their Relatives in the Period of the Second Domestic Revolutionary War". Following the spirit of the notice, the provinces of Jiangxi, Fujian, Hubei, and others have exonerated nearly 20,000 people. Other provinces have also exonerated wrongly executed party, political, and military leaders. However, the issue regarding the majority of the people has not yet been resolved. After the third plenary session of the 11th Central Committee of the Communist Party, many relatives of the wrongfully executed individuals and some elderly comrades repeatedly demanded a thorough solution to this historical issue. Leading comrades in the central government directed the central organization department and the Ministry of Civil Affairs to propose handling methods. In March and June of 1983, the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China and the State Council approved two opinions on handling these wrongly executed individuals. The State Council transferred the Ministry of Civil Affairs' "Notice on the Handling of Wrongly Executed Persons During the Period of the Second Domestic Revolutionary War". The organizational departments and civil affairs departments of The provinces Hu'bei, An'hui, He'nan, Fu'jian, Jiang'xi, Si'chuan, Shan'xi, and others, worked closely together to conduct thorough reviews.

Under the leadership of the Central Committee and the efforts of the relevant provinces and cities, after three years of hard work, the wrongful cases were finally cleared in Soviet former territories' anti-counter revolution campaign. Those wrongly executed or improperly treated, and their widows were adequately compensated. This major historical issue that had been dragging on for decades was thoroughly resolved.

In June 1979, Ji Pengfei, Li Da, Hu'ang Zhen, Wang Youping, Yuan Xuezu, Su Jin, and other 12 elderly comrades wrote to the central government. They reflected that the famous generals Ji Zhentong and Huang Zhongyue of the Ningdu Uprising, who were part of the former Red Army's 5th Corps, had been wrongly executed in 1934 and suggested their names be cleared. In accordance with instructions of leading comrades in the central government, the Central Organization Department sent personnel to investigate, consulting with more than 70 elderly comrades and reviewing relevant archives. Ji Zhentong was originally one of Nationalist Party's 26th Route's 25th Division 74th Brigade, and Huang Zhongyue was a regiment commander. On December 14, 1931, they took part in the nationwide shaking “Ningdu Uprising” led by Communist Party member Zhao Bosheng and other key commanders. After their uprising, the ten thousand soldiers were organized into the Red 5th Army, and Ji Zhentong was inducted into the Communist Party as a special member, taking up the position of army commander. Huang Zhongyue was the commander of the 15th Army. In the spring of 1932, the National Security Bureau found that the faction led by Ji Zhentong and Huang Zhongyue intended to abscond with the troops, branding them as counter-revolutionaries and later, under the influence of Wang Ming's "Leftist", they were executed on the eve of the Long March. 

For this case, comrade Ye Jianying remarked: "I heard Chairman Mao say (probably in Yan'an) that killing Ji Zhentong and Huang Zhongyue was a mistake, and now I think this wrongful case should be cleared." From the Central Organization Department’s review, Ji Zhentong and Huang Zhongyue made significant contributions to the Ningdu Uprising and had a substantial impact, and so should be recognized. He Yingqin once sent people to get in contact with Ji Zhentong and Huang Zhongyue to cause defection, but although Ji and Huang did not report this contact to the organization, the enemy's attempt at defection was unsuccessful. Their execution was unjustified and should be redressed and their reputations restored. In August 1981, the Central Secretariat approved and agreed to the "Request for the Redress of Comrades Ji Zhentong and Huang Zhongyue of the Former Red Army's 5th Corps by the Central Organization Department". They also decided to properly evaluate Ji Zhentong and Huang Zhongyue's contributions to the uprising, thus resolving the wrongful case, which had been a miscarriage of justice for nearly half a century, in a fair and reasonable manner.



(10) To fully redress the "Suto Incident" in Huxi. The Huxi "Suto Incident" occurred between August and November 1939, starting from the lakeside regional committee and then spreading to the entire Sulu Yu border region. A large number of officials were arrested and killed in this incident, causing severe losses. In November 1939, Luo Ronghuan and Guo Hongtao, the heads of the Shandong branch of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP), rushed to Huxi and took emergency measures to stop the development of this event. From 1940 to 1945, the central government and the Shandong branch made several reviews and confirmed that Wang Xuren, the former Minister of Organization of the lakeside regional committee, was the prime culprit who was of unknown origin and created the "Suto Incident". However, due to the historical conditions at that time, no definite conclusion was made about the nature of the incident, resulting in many legacy issues being inadequately addressed. Some relatives of the wronged comrades were tagged as "anti-relatives" during the "Cultural Revolution". The Shandong Provincial Committee rechecked this historical injustice according to the spirit of the Central Government's instructions on redressing wrong cases. In May 1983, the CCP Shandong Provincial Committee submitted a report to the Central Committee on "Suggestions for handling the remaining issues of the Huxi 'Suto Incident'", pointing out that this was not an exaggerated issue. The "Suto Movement" in 1939 aimed to purge "Trotskyite members" and "Trotskyite organizations" without any factual basis. The seven so-called "true Trotskyist bandits" were found to be false one by one. This was a major false and wrong case that should be fully redressed. For those comrades who were wrongfully killed or handled improperly, they are to be completely rehabilitated and vindicated. The family members and children of those affected should also be completely rehabilitated and their reputations cleared. Approved by the central government, the Organisation Department of the Central Committee forwarded the report of the CCP Shandong Provincial Committee on "Suggestions for handling the remaining issues of the Huxi 'Suto Incident'" in December 1983, enabling this long-standing wrong case to be fully redressed.

(11) To redress the so-called "Trotskyite case" of the Fourth Division of the New Fourth Army and the Huabei and Huanan bases in 1941. In October 1984, the Organization Department of the CCP Central Committee and the General Political Department of the People's Liberation Army made a "decision on the complete redress of the so-called Trotskyite case of the Fourth Division of the New Fourth Army and the Huabei and Huanan bases in 1941". The decision pointed out that the CCP branch of the Guangxi Student Army, from its establishment in May 1938 to its withdrawal to Huabei and Huanan bases in March 1940, under the direct leadership of the Anhui Provincial Work Committee, the Party Committee of the Eyuwan area and the Lihuang City Committee, did good work in mobilizing and organizing the masses, insisting on resistance behind enemy lines, propagating the party's Anti-Japanese National United Front policy and Anti-Japanese political advocacy, and shielding underground party leadership organs. Communist members and progressive masses in the Guangxi Student Army made positive contributions to the Anti-Japanese armed struggle and base construction after arriving at the New Fourth Army and the Huabei and Huanan bases. In the past, defaming the CCP branch of the Guangxi Student Army as a "Trotskyite organization" and reviewing dozens of comrades for "Trotskyite issues" was groundless. The so-called Trotskyite case was completely unjustified. To eliminate the impact of this historical injustice, it was decided to completely vindicate the Guangxi Student Army CCP branch and all comrades who were wrongly reviewed, wrongfully executed in this case, and restore their reputations. The relevant regional and unit party organizations shall, in accordance with relevant central provisions, carefully sort out archival materials and do a good job of follow-up work.

(12) Proper handling of the historical legacy of the "Central Plains Breakout". In August 1980, Zheng Shaowen, Zhang Zhiyi, and others wrote to the Party Central Committee requesting that the remaining issues of the "Central Plains Breakout" be resolved realistically and properly. Hu Yaobang made an important instruction on the letter, asking the relevant departments to handle it properly.
In 1946, our troops in the Central Plains and the party and government organs in the liberated areas of the Central Plains, under the heavy siege of 300,000 troops of the Kuomintang, carried out a strategic shift - breakout. Due to the extremely urgent situation, in order to preserve forces, the original Central Plains Bureau of our party formulated some special policies, mobilized a large number of comrades who could not break out with the army to be demobilized and to go undercover. During the breakout process, many comrades were scattered and lost.



Some of them, due to reasons such as demobilization, concealment, and falling behind, did not get proper resolutions to issues such as party memberships, experience in revolutionary work, and historical problems, but were also treated unjustly. On May 29, 1957, Zheng Wei San, the former secretary of the Central Plains Bureau, and Chen Shao Min, the minister of the organization department, both wrote a special letter to the Central Organization Department detailing the situation. The letter stated that, before the breakout from the Central Plains in 1946, the situation was already very urgent, and a large number of local work cadres were unable to mobilize with the army. In order to conserve strength, we had made the following decision: try as much as possible to disguise themselves and go to other liberated areas using social connections; those who couldn't disguise themselves should use social connections to hide; if found by the enemy and unable to hide, they could surrender to the enemy as New Fourth Army soldiers or agricultural association members, as long as they did not reveal their party memberships or surrender as party members; future return to the ranks would not be treated as surrender; if they surrender as party members, they would be dealt with separately. This decision, made under very difficult circumstances, was our responsibility if wrong. The Central Organization Department forwarded this letter to the provincial committees of Hubei and Henan for handling, asking them to pay attention to the conditions discussed in the letter while dealing with the surrender of party members in the Central Plains liberated area. However, it did not receive the attention it deserved at the time. In the early days of the founding of the People's Republic of China, when dealing with the historical issues left over from the "Central Plains Breakout", some comrades were judged too harshly due to insufficient consideration of the historical context and a lack of detailed analysis. Especially during the "Cultural Revolution", some comrades were purged and the judgement escalated.

According to the instructions of the Central leadership, the Organization Department of the Hubei Provincial Committee and the Party Group of the Provincial Civil Affairs Department conducted a serious investigation into the historical issues left over from the "Central Plains Breakout" and put forward "Opinions on Handling the Historical Issues Left Over from the Demobilized, Concealed, and Fallen Behind Personnel during the Central Plains Breakout", pointing out that the remaining issues of the demobilized, concealed, and fallen behind personnel during the Central Plains Breakout should be handled in accordance with the basic spirit of the letter from Zheng Wei San and Chen Shao Min, which was forwarded by the Central Organization Department on June 6, 1957, and the Central Organization Department's "Opinions on Thoroughly Redressing Wrong and False Cases and Further Doing a Good Job in Implementing Cadre Policies" on February 19, 1981. Based on the principle of "seeking truth from facts and correcting mistakes", their issues should be carefully sorted out and resolved properly and cautiously; the past conclusions on issues such as party membership, work arrangement, retirement, and calculation of time in work, and issues related to honoring the demobilized soldiers and martyrs, should be adjusted if they were wrong. In July 1981, the Central Organization Department forwarded the "Opinions on Handling the Historical Issues Left Over from the Central Plains Breakout" from the Organization Department of the Hubei Provincial Committee and the Party Group of the Provincial Civil Affairs Department. The relevant provinces, cities, and departments quickly organized the review and correction. Through the review and correction, more than 50,000 cases of demobilized, concealed, and fallen behind personnel were resolved, correcting the wrongly handled cases in the early days of the founding of the People's Republic of China, and this historical issue was properly resolved.

(13) The legacy issue of properly handling the personnel killed in the "Sino-US Cooperation Office" prison on the eve of the liberation of Chongqing. After the Third Plenary Session of the Eleventh Central Committee, the Central Organization Department of the Communist Party of China entrusted the Organization Department of the Sichuan Provincial Committee to re-investigate and verify the martyrs who were killed in the "Sino-US Cooperation Office" prison on the eve of the liberation of Chongqing. After an in-depth investigation by the Organization Department of the Sichuan Provincial Committee, 83 issues were clarified. The Party organization made objective and fact-based conclusions about them. Among them, 64 people, including Xi Maozhao and Zhang Luping, insisted on the noble character of the Communist Party members, bravely fought, remained unyielding, and calmly sacrificed themselves in prison, demonstrating heroic deeds worth singing and crying about and sufficient to be a role model for future generations, and were posthumously recognized as revolutionary martyrs. This historical issue, which had been delayed for more than thirty years, was finally resolved properly. On November 20, 1986, Xinhua News Agency even made a special report on this matter.

By dealing with the above major historical issues, it promoted the progress of properly handling historical issues nationwide.



Each province, city, autonomous region, and department has reviewed and cleaned up the historical issues left over in their region and department. A large number of historical issues in their region and department have been properly handled. According to incomplete statistics, during the process of properly handling historical issues, nearly two million historical cases from before the "Cultural Revolution" were re-examined and handled nationwide. Before the Thirteenth Congress in 1987, the nationwide work of properly handling historical issues was basically completed. By properly handling historical issues, the enthusiasm of the vast majority of cadres and the masses was greatly mobilized, contributing to social stability and unity, promoting the rectification of wrong cases, implementing cadre policy work, and ensuring that this work was completed victoriously before the Thirteenth Congress.

III. Reasonably Adjusting Social Relations under the New Situation
While rectifying wrong cases on a large scale, the Central Committee of the Party also studied and dealt with some historical issues in a practical manner, adjusted social relations, and implemented policies in various aspects.
1. Fully implement the intellectual policy and solve the practical problems of intellectuals
Implementing the intellectual policy is an important part of rectifying wrong cases and implementing cadre policy work. This spans the entire process of rectifying wrong cases and implementing cadre policies, from 1978 until its victorious completion before the Thirteenth Congress in 1987.
Our intellectuals have a fine tradition of patriotism. After years of education by the Party, the vast majority of intellectuals support the leadership of the Chinese Communist Party and love their socialist motherland. However, due to a "left" bias and discrimination against intellectuals that had formed over a long period, many intellectuals were impacted to varying degrees during each political movement. During the "Cultural Revolution", many intellectuals were once again severely persecuted.
After the smashing of the "Gang of Four", in March 1978, Deng Xiaoping delivered an important speech at the National Science Conference. He clarified the basic Marxist principles on the position and role of science and technology in social development. He pointed out that the intellectual workers serving socialism are part of the working people and stressed the necessity of creating a larger force of science and technology in our country. Deng Xiaoping's discussion on intellectuals being part of the working class greatly inspired the intellectuals to love the party and build the socialist motherland. At the same time, it also cleared the obstacles for the large-scale implementation of intellectual policies and pointed out the direction.
From October to November 1978, the Central Organization Department of the Communist Party of China held a symposium on implementing the intellectual policy. The meeting believed that the situation of the intellectual team had undergone profound changes. The guidelines for the "unity, education, and transformation" of intellectuals put forward at the beginning of the founding of the country are no longer applicable to the current situation. It is imperative to properly implement the intellectual policy. On November 3, the Organization Department issued a notice on "Several Opinions on Implementing the Party's Intellectual Policy", proposing six requirements for the implementation of intellectual policy: First, there should be a correct estimate of the intellectual team. Second, continue to do a good job of reviewing and rectifying wrongful cases. Third, fully trust, let go, and ensure that there are positions, power, and responsibilities. Fourth, adjust the use of non-professional talents, and make the best use of talents. Fifth, strive to improve working and living conditions. Sixth, strengthen leadership and improve style. After the document was issued, the large-scale implementation of intellectual policy gradually unfolded nationwide, and respect for knowledge and talent gradually gained traction in society.



Hu Yaobang paid great attention to this work and put in a lot of effort. He made many important notes on the problems encountered in implementing the policy for intellectuals. In accordance with Hu Yaobang's series of instructions and the Central Committee's proposal to complete the reversal of wrongful cases before the Thirteenth Congress, the Central Organization Department worked with relevant departments to seriously implement inspections and follow-up work on the policy for intellectuals. This was one of the focal points of the Central Organization Department during this period.

In May 1985, the Central Organization Department and the Central United Front Department jointly held a national seminar on the implementation of policies for intellectuals, specifically studying how to complete the task set by the Central Committee before the Thirteenth Congress. They focused on the establishment of a responsibility system divided by departments and levels. Leadership at all levels, especially colleagues in the organization departments, were asked to personally go to the grassroots to supervise and help solve difficult problems, and solidly carry out the work of implementing policies for intellectuals.

In September 1986, with the approval of central leaders, the Organization Department of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China issued a "Notice on the Inspection of the Implementation of the Intellectual Policy", which pointed out that the task of implementing the intellectual policy and solving historical legacy issues had been substantially completed in some regions and departments. The majority of regions and departments planned to complete it in the second half of the year. In order to ensure the quality of the work, the units were asked for a careful inspection. Specific requirements were put forward for the scope and content of the inspection, organization, leadership, and step-by-step methods. In November, the Organization Department of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China held experience exchange meetings in Dalian, Wuhan, and Beijing. According to statistics from 25 provinces (regions, cities), more than 7.1 million people (items) had their various issues resolved in the implementation of policies for intellectuals.

The above measures greatly promoted and propelled the deep development of the implementation of policies for intellectuals. Under the caring concern of the central leadership and the collective efforts of all regions and departments, this arduous task was basically completed before the Thirteenth Congress of the Party.

2. Cap Removing and Problem-Solving for Offsprings of Landlords and Wealthy Peasants

On January 11, 1979, in accordance with the principles passed at the Third Plenary Session of the 11th CPC Central Committee, the CPC Central Committee made the "Decision on the Issue of Cap Removal for Landlords and Wealthy Peasants and the Component Issue of Landlord and Wealthy Peasants' Offspring" (hereinafter referred to as the "Decision"). The "Decision" announced that all landlords and wealthy peasants, as well as counter-revolutionaries and bad elements who had obeyed the laws and regulations of the government for many years, worked honestly, and did not do evil, would all have their "hats" removed upon approval by the county revolutionary committee through a mass review, and they would be treated as members of the rural people's commune. The offspring of landlords and wealthy peasants, as well as former capitalists and laborers, would automatically become commune members and enjoy the same treatment as other commune members. From then on, they should be mainly judged by their political performance in aspects such as entering school, recruitment, joining the army, joining group or party, and job allocation, and they should not be discriminated against. The "Decision" also required thorough learning of the party's policies from within and outside the party, and thorough ideological education work.

This decision paved the way for at least 20 million people to end their political discrimination, to enjoy the rights they should have as citizens, and to start a new political life. According to Xinhua News Agency, by November 1984, the last batch of "Four Categories" had their "hats" removed smoothly nationwide. The "hats" of those who were mistakenly categorized into the "Four Categories" were also corrected. All of the "Four Categories" who had already left the country or their residences had their "hats" removed, and their families were notified.

3. Restoring the Status of Original Workers and Businessmen



On November 12, 1979, the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China approved the request report from six departments, including the United Front Work Department of the Central Committee, on the issue of distinguishing the workers from the original industrial and commercial workers. The report clearly pointed out that in 1956, when private enterprises were combined with public-private partnerships, a large number of small merchants, peddlers, small-scale craftsmen, and other laborers were brought into the partnership, and they were uniformly referred to as private personnel, treated as bourgeois industrial and commercial workers, which was improper. They should be distinguished from the original bourgeois industrial and commercial workers and their original labor composition should be clarified. In accordance with the spirit of this document, after more than a year of work, a total of over 700,000 small merchants, peddlers, small-scale craftsmen, and other laborers were distinguished from the original industrial and commercial workers, the constituent of the workers was restored, thus effectively solving this historical issue left over from socialist transformation and correcting the errors at that time. In the process of carrying out this work, according to the Central's regulations on several specific policies of the former industrial and commercial workers, the hat of the capitalist or capitalist agent was also removed from the former industrial and commercial workers.

4. Resolution of issues relating to historical restrictions on some cadres

During the later stage of the work to redress unjust, false and wrong cases and implement cadre policies, the Central Organization Department also systematically cleaned up some special documents on cadre review issued since the founding of New China, modified or abolished those influenced by "leftist" thinking or no longer applicable due to changes in circumstances. For cadres who were wrongly treated, a review was given for correction. It solved a batch of problems that had been left over for many years, such as some cadres having historical restrictions.   

Restricting the use of some cadres was a special method adopted by our party to suit the war era and special environment in the use of cadres. In the war era and the early days of New China, due to objective constraints, it was difficult to clarify the political history or social relations of some cadres for a while, and it was impossible to make an affirmative or negative conclusion. Therefore, in their service, the party organization placed them in secondary work positions, controlled them appropriately, and continued to inspect them. Adopting this temporary measure was necessary at that time. But for a long time after the establishment of New China, this method was not timely changed, but continued. During the "Cultural Revolution", some places and units abused this method, arbitrarily made restrictive conclusions for some comrades, severely dampened the enthusiasm of some cadres and the public. On February 1, 1979, the 38th issue of "Organization Work Communication" published an article "We Cannot Randomly Conclude the 'Control of Use' for Cadres". The article pointed out that it has been nearly thirty years since the national liberation, and after multiple political movements and organization reviews, some comrades have been cleared and found to be unquestionable, or although there are some issues, but they have consistently shown good performance after a long period of examination. The organization should lift the past doubts, cancel the conclusion of "controlling use", give political trust, and boldly use them according to the conditions of virtue and talent. It clearly states that the cadre will generally not be "controlled" in the future. Only for a very few people who are very likely to harm the socialist cause if they are not controlled, it is necessary to control them in use. But before the problems with them are completely cleared up, those with special skills should pay attention to their role based on the situation, and continue to educate and inspect them in the process of use. With the deepening of redress cases and the implementation of cadre policies, in October 1983, with the approval of the Central Secretariat, the Central Organization Department issued the "Opinions on Resolving Some Problems of Historical Restrictions on Cadres". The document pointed out that before and after the establishment of New China, in the cadre review and anti-corruption campaigns, the Central and the Central Organization Department had regulations to restrict the use of cadres with political history and other issues. These regulations were necessary under historical conditions. But these cadres, who have been used restrictively, have undergone long-term revolutionary struggle and training, and most of them have shown good or better behavior. Some comrades have also made important contributions to the party and the people. In order to use cadres reasonably and fully exert their active role in the four modernizations, the original regulations should be changed. 
To do this work well, in September 1984, the Organization Department of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China forwarded the pilot work report of the cadre review office of Changchun Municipal Committee and Nongan County Committee on resolving some issues regarding historical restrictions on cadres.



In September 1986, the Organization Department of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China submitted a request to the Central Party regarding "Changing the Use Restrictions of Forty-One Cadres Above Deputy Department Level" and, with agreement from central leaders, this was approved. The document pointed out that based on the relevant provisions of the Central Organization Department's "Opinions on Changing the Restricted Use of Cadres who Made Mistakes after Being Arrested and Captured" approved by the Central Party in July 1981 and "Opinions on Lifting Some Cadres' Historical Restrictions on Use" in October 1983, it was proposed that the original restrictions on the use of 41 comrades would be revoked, canceled and removed. Provinces, Autonomous Regions, Municipalities, and ministries of the Central State Organ responded positively and carried out this work in a steady manner based on their managerial authority and Central's recommendation. The efforts to lift historical use restrictions on some cadres ended before the 13th National Congress.

5. Implementing the Party's Ethnic and Religious Policies

Between 1980 and 1981, the Secretariat of the Communist Party of China held conferences in regions like Tibet, Yunnan, Xinjiang, and Inner Mongolia to earnestly solve issues regarding the implementation of the party's ethnic policies. The "hats" of comrades who were labeled "local ethnic nationalists" were removed by the Central and certain local party committees.

In March 1982, the Secretariat of the Communist Party of China issued a document on religious issues during socialism, clarifying the Party's basic views and policies on religion. Before and after this, the activities of patriotic religious groups were restored, temples were gradually renovated and opened, and the party's religious policies were implemented.

6. Implementing Policies for Foreign Experts and Friends Working in China

In September 1981, a foreign expert working in China wrote a letter to central leaders, requesting a revision of the review conclusion. The leaders of the Central Organization Department proposed an overall review of the policy implementation issues of foreign expert friends, and suggested a solution to the Central Secretariat. The central leaders agreed and commented that this foreign expert's "request was reasonable and should be thoroughly rectified without leaving any residue. A comprehensive review and disposition of the policy implementation issues of foreign friends is completely necessary."

Following the leaders' instructions, the Central Organization Department and Ministry of Public Security reviewed the conclusions regarding this foreign expert and others who were working in China, such as Epstein and his wife Qiu Molly who worked in the Foreign Literature Bureau, British expert Chapinoh who worked for Xinhua News Agency, and British expert Kruk who worked in the Foreign Language Institute, and implemented the policy. They also understood the status of policy implementation for foreign experts from units such as the National Foreign Experts Bureau. According to investigations, most foreign experts affected during the "Cultural Revolution" have been exonerated, their reputation restored, wages replenished, and they have been re-assigned to their jobs. Nevertheless, many issues still exist and need to be carefully resolved.

Therefore, the Central Organization Department and Party Group of Ministry of Public Security submitted a "Report on the Policy Implementation Situation for Foreign Expert Friends" to the Central Party, affirming the significant contributions made by foreign experts in China's revolution and construction, underscoring that they should be respected by our Party and people, and requesting relevant units to carry out comprehensive checks and clean ups on policy implementation for foreign expert friends. Any discovered issues should be promptly resolved to eliminate adverse effects. For experts hurt during the "Cultural Revolution", political rehabilitation should be thorough, their lives well cared for, and work enthusiastically supported. Our Party's series of guidelines and policies on cadre policy implementation should be fully implemented among foreign expert friends. In addition, their characteristics should be taken into consideration, and preferential treatment given. In March 1982, the Central Committee of the Communist Party endorsed the report of the Central Organization Department and Party Group of the Ministry of Public Security. After the document was issued, comprehensive clarifications were made on policy implementation issues for foreign experts working in China and they were promptly and appropriately handled. This eliminated adverse effects, allowing foreign experts and friends working in China to serve China's socialist modernization faithfully and restoring our international reputation.



This nationwide rectification of wrongful cases, adjustment of social relations, and implementation of various policies, unlike anything in the history of our Party, in terms of its length of time, broadness of content, and massive scale, thoroughly solves problems. The resolution of the above-mentioned historical issues and the implementation of the Party's policies effectively mobilized the enthusiasm of all strata of society, consolidated and developed the patriotic united front, and greatly promoted the ideological liberation of the whole Party, the rectification of organizational lines, the consolidation and development of a stable, united political situation, the assurance of socialist modernization, and the unification of the motherland. 

IV. Restoration of the Party's Nationality and Religious Policies

During the "Cultural Revolution", like other fronts, work on nationality and religion was seriously harmed and restricted by the "leftist" guiding ideology. The institutions for nationality and religion work were cancelled, and the nationality and religion work was falsely accused. After smashing the "Gang of Four", the urgent task in the field of nationality and religion work was to heal the trauma brought by the ten years of turmoil to the nationality and religion work, adjust the nationality and religion relations, reaffirm and restore the Party's nationality and religious policies, formulate guidelines to guide the nationality and religion work under new conditions, and carry out groundbreaking work.

1. Restoration of the party's nationality policy

To reaffirm and adhere to the party's nationality policy, and implement the party's nationality policy, we need an organization and people to do this important work. The first session of the Fifth National People's Congress in 1978 decided to restore the State Ethnic Affairs Commission of the People's Republic of China and appointed Yang Jingren as the director. The second session of the Fifth National People's Congress in 1979 decided to restore the Ethnic Affairs Committee of the National People's Congress and appointed Vice Chairman of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress, Apa Awang Jinmei, as concurrent chairman. Other nationality work institutions and ethnic affairs work institutions at all levels across the country were also restored.

Shortly after the Third Plenary Session of the 11th Central Committee of the Party, in April 1979, the Central Government hosted the National Frontier Work Conference. This conference is of great historical significance for consolidating the national frontier, promoting national unity, and rectifying the chaos in national work. One of the main contents of the meeting was to discuss the tasks of national work in the new era. Because most of the border areas of China are minority areas, to build a solid defense, maintain national unity, develop a stable and united situation, it is necessary to do a good job in national work, promote national unity and common development and prosperity. The meeting reaffirmed a series of national policies, religious policies, united front policies that have been proven correct by practice, against the damages of Lin Biao and the "Gang of Four" to national policy and national work, focusing on the practice of national work since the founding of New China, summarizing the lessons and experiences: First, we must adhere to the principle of linking theory with practice, and starting from reality. The situation in border minority areas is complicated, and the implementation of the party's line, guidelines, and policies, and the realization of the overall tasks of the new era must be well combined with the national characteristics and regional characteristics of the border minority areas. Second, we must insist on the long-term existence of the national question. The socialist stage is a period where all nationalities develop and prosper together. Throughout the socialist historical stage, the task of national work is arduous, we must pay attention to national issues, seriously implement the party's national policy, and truly respect the equal rights and autonomous rights of minority nationalities. Third, we must adhere to the proletarian view of nationality and continually strengthen the great unity of the people of all nationalities based on the solid alliance of workers and farmers. The consolidation of national unity and the unity of all nationalities in the country is the fundamental guarantee for accelerating the realization of the overall tasks of the new era. Fourth, we must persist in the policy of combining state support with self-reliance, and accelerate the economic and cultural construction of the frontier minority areas.



Practice has proven that developing the economic and cultural construct in minority areas of the frontier relies on the tough struggle and self-reliance of the local people of all ethnic groups. Concurrently, the state must actively support and pay particular attention to these areas while earnestly aiding their economic and cultural development. This is a major task for the state in terms of its ethnic work. The Central Committee of the Communist Party of China (CPC) approved the conference report, urging the whole party to attach great importance to ethnic work, carry out reeducation of ethnic policies and solve existing problems by checking the implementation of these policies.

In September 1979, the CPC Central Committee approved the document of the National United Front Work Conference titled "Guidelines and Missions of the United Front in the New Historical Period". As for strengthening ethnic work, it asked for reeducation on ethnic policies to be carried out widely and thoroughly among the entire party and all ethnic groups, and to solve problems related to ethnic relations and eliminate any factors that could harm unity. It urged education for cadres and people of all ethnic groups, particularly Han Chinese, to comprehend the importance of strengthening ethnic unity and improving their awareness of implementing ethnic policies. It stressed respecting minorities' equal rights, self-rule rights, native language, customs, and religious beliefs, as well as implementing the party's freedom of religious belief policy entirely.

Implementing the party's ethnic policy should not only regard the areas inhabited by the ethnic minorities but also consider mixed and dispersed living areas. In October 1979, a report entitled "About Doing a Good Job in Ethnic Work in Mixed and Scattered Areas of Ethnic Minorities" was approved by the CPC Central Committee and the State Council where they pointed out that although the criticism of Lin Biao and the "Gang of Four" had triumphed, some areas had not applied ethnic and religious policies thoroughly and some cases of injustice had not been redressed. Suggesting that it was necessary to earnestly safeguard their equal rights, actively help minorities develop economically and culturally, fully respect their customs and implement the freedom of religious beliefs policy.

In response to the dilution of people's concept of ethnic policy caused by the ten years of turmoil, the CPC Central Committee Propaganda Department, the United Front Work Department, and the State Nationalities Commission held a symposium on ethnic policy propaganda work in December 1979, making arrangements for reeducation on ethnic policies, and deciding to conduct a widespread propaganda education on ethnic policies and ethnic unity for a period of time. In January 1980, the three departments approved the meeting minutes, stating that it is very important to conduct ethnic policy education. The focus of the reeducation should be on overcoming Han chauvinism, which is the key to adjusting ethnic relations and promoting ethnic unity at the moment, while also preventing and overcoming major ethnic nationalism and local ethnic nationalism. Both the Han and the ethnic minorities should be educated, mainly focusing on educating the Han. The reeducation should be combined with the inspection of the implementation of ethnic policies to solve practical problems. From central to local levels, some outstanding issues related to ethnic relations were solved by carrying out reeducation on ethnic policies and inspecting the implementation of ethnic policies, religious policies, and united front policies. The understanding of ethnic policies and the awareness of maintaining ethnic unity among the vast number of cadres and the masses have been raised, and ethnic relations have improved initially.



For example, in the Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region, there is a concentrated effort to enact ethnic policies and promote ethnic unity through education. The region has issued and implemented the "Ethnic Unity Code", formulated the "Ethnic Unity Convention", and broadly held commendations for progress in ethnic unity across the entire autonomous region, carrying out activities supporting ethnic unity and progress. The General Office of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China forwarded documents from the Party Committee of the Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region, pointing out that diligently implementing the party’s ethnic policy, and continuously strengthening ethnic unity, is a very important task for every party committee in ethnic autonomous regions and areas where various ethnic groups live together. Concrete measures should be formulated and enforced to strengthen ethnic policy education and promote substantial progress in ethnic unity.

Restoring and adhering to the party's ethnic policy principally involves adhering to and implementing the policy of ethnic regional autonomy. This includes first restoring the structure of ethnic regional autonomy, followed by training officials from ethnic minorities. In 1979, the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China and the State Council decided to restore the original administrative divisions of the Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region, which had been previously allocated to Liaoning, Jilin, Heilongjiang, Gansu, and Ningxia during the Cultural Revolution. Work related to ethnic regional autonomy that had been forced to stop due to the ten years of turbulence was restarted. At the same time, a number of new ethnic autonomous regions were established. From 1979 to the end of 1988, a total of 53 new ethnic autonomous regions were established nationwide. Implementing the policy of ethnic regional autonomy allows autonomous ethnic groups to truly manage their own affairs, and training of officials from ethnic minorities is crucial. The Constitution of the People's Republic of China promulgated in 1982 restored and developed some important principles concerning ethnic regional autonomy from the 1954 constitution. It also made a series of important amendments and supplements based on changes in state affairs during the new period of socialist construction, expanding even further the autonomous rights of ethnic autonomous organizations. After the Third Plenary Session of the 11th Central Committee of the Party, a large number of ethnic minority officials returned to their job through the "correction of chaos" and retrials of cases where injustice had been done, gradually increasing the intensity of this work at all levels from central to local, adopting a number of effective measures, and rapidly growing the ethnic cadre to 1.84 million by 1988.

2. A New Policy for the Work in Tibet

Among China's relations with its various ethnic groups, Tibet bears a unique sensitivity. Work resolving historical issues in Tibet commenced in 1977 and this included the retroactive exoneration and re-examination of cadre who had been allocated full-time positions for trial and investigation pre-Cultural Revolution and during the Cultural Revolution. After the Central Work Conference was held in November 1978, Deng Xiaoping conveyed a willingness for reconciliation with the Dalai Lama to the West within a week. Three months later, Deng Xiaoping personally met representatives sent by the Dalai Lama in Beijing, publically expressing "Welcome back, Dalai, welcome more people to come back and visit."

In February 1980, Hu Yaobang, who was elected General Secretary of the Central Committee, first focused on the issue of Tibet. From March 14th to 15th, 1980, he presided over a symposium on Tibet work, listening to reports from officials responsible for the Party Committee of the Tibetan Autonomous Region. Hu Yaobang emphasized in the meeting that in order to accelerate the construction in Tibet, we must further liberate thinking, implement policies, decisively cleanse the remaining toxins of the "leftist" line, correct the "leftist" economic policies, boldly train and promote Tibetan officials, and gradually make Tibetan officials the main body in party and government agencies above the county level.



It must be prudent in dealing with Lamaism in religion, urgently handle the historical problems such as the expansion of rebellion and the misjudgment of the rich peasants, and strengthen the work on the Dalai group and the relatives of the Tibetans living in the territory, mobilize all positive factors, and consolidate the stable and united situation. On April 7, the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China forwarded the minutes of this meeting and issued a notice. In late May, Hu Yaobang, Wan Li and the leaders of the relevant central departments formed a delegation of over ten people to inspect Tibet. On May 29, Hu Yaobang made a report at the Tibet Autonomous Region cadre conference at the county level and above, proposing that Tibet should do well in six major tasks, including decisively implementing the policy of rest and recuperation, implementing more flexible economic policies than the mainland, and restoring and developing Tibetan culture and science. The most important ones are the following two: one is to grant Tibet a "full and independent autonomy", and the policy of the central government can not be implemented or can be implemented flexibly if it does not fit the Tibetan situation, and if it is not conducive to national unity or the development of productivity, it can not be implemented. The second is to emphasize the strengthening of the unity between Han and Tibetan cadres, and the method is to gradually withdraw Han cadres and replace them with Tibetan cadres, so that Tibetan cadres account for more than two-thirds of the national cadre out of production within two or three years. For the cadres who go to Tibet to work, Hu Yaobang both encourages and criticizes, thinking that "Han cadres working in Tibet have completed their historical tasks", proposing that 80% of Han people withdraw from Tibet. According to Hu Yaobang's opinion, the Tibet Autonomous Region submitted a report to the central government on the "Request Report for the Large-scale Transfer Back of Cadres and Workers", proposing that the majority of people entering Tibet be transferred back to work in the mainland or retired in phases and batches, except for a part of the leadership cadres and technical backbone. On August 6, the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China and the State Council forwarded this report. From 1980 to the end of 1981, a total of more than 20,000 cadres have been transferred in two batches, most of whom are the "old Tibetans" who entered Tibet in the 1950s and 1960s. It decided to call back another 17,000 cadres and workers who went to Tibet (including those who retired) in 1986.
The central policy on Tibet had a great impact on ethnic regions such as Inner Mongolia, Xinjiang, Yunnan, Qinghai, Ningxia, and Gansu. On May 31, 1980, during his brief stopover in Ge’ermu, Hu Yaobang told the leaders of Qinghai Province, "The six points we made at the cadre meeting in the Tibet Autonomous Region basically conform to the situation in Qinghai, and you can refer to it for study and implementation." Hu Yaobang and Wan Li both emphasized that the policy should be relaxed a little bit more, and the autonomous rights of ethnic regional autonomy should be fully exercised. The purpose was to apply the policy guidelines for solving Tibet to other ethnic regions. Subsequently, Gansu, Inner Mongolia, Ningxia, Guangxi and other provinces and autonomous regions held meetings to study the central party committee's instructions on work in Tibet and Hu Yaobang's speech in Tibet, and decided to solve local problems in accordance with the central instructions on work in Tibet. Since then, the Central Secretariat of the Communist Party of China has discussed the work of Yunnan, Xinjiang, and Inner Mongolia, leading to the formation of the minutes on the work of the ethnic groups in Yunnan, Xinjiang, and Inner Mongolia.
In the early 1980s, the Party began to adjust its ethnic policy, with the aim of improving ethnic relations. However, the state-compiled "Contemporary Tibet in China" pointed out that a large number of Han people and Han cadres withdrew from Tibet, which was done rather "roughly", causing a group of urgently needed talents in Tibet to be transferred away and causing great impact on various work in Tibet, especially in science and technology, education, medical and health, financial and financial departments. Deng Liqun also raised sharper criticisms from a political perspective on the large-scale withdrawal of cadres entering Tibet. Some domestic scholars also opposed the decision to withdraw cadres from Tibet for national security considerations.
3. Restoration and Adjustment of Religious Policy
After 1957, the "left" mistakes in the party's religious work gradually grew, and further developed in the mid-1960s.



Especially during the "Cultural Revolution," Lin Biao and the "Gang of Four" maliciously manipulated the "leftist" errors, wantonly trampled on the scientific theories of Marx-Leninism and Mao Zedong Thought on religious issues, entirely negated the correct policy of the Party on religious issues since the founding of the People's Republic of China, and completely ceased the Party's religious work. They forcibly prohibited the religious life of religious believers, treated patriotic religious figures and even ordinary religious believers as "objects of dictatorship," and fabricated numerous false cases in the religious community. They also regarded certain customs of certain ethnic minorities as religious superstitions and forcibly prohibited them. In some places, they even suppressed religious believers and undermined national unity. They used violence on religious issues, but as a result, religious activities somewhat developed in secrecy and disarray. A few bad elements took advantage of these conditions to carry out illegal and destructive activities under the guise of religious activities.

After the Third Plenary Session of the Eleventh Central Committee of the Party, the Party's correct policies on religious affairs gradually resumed. The core of the policy adjustment at that time was to allow religious freedom to a certain extent. On December 1, 1978, the United Front Work Department of the Central Committee convened a national seminar on religious work. The primary task of religious work in the future was proposed: to seriously implement the policy of freedom of religious belief, to properly arrange religious activities, and to unite the majority of religious believers to participate in the construction of socialism. It proposed to restore and improve the institutions of religious work and the activities of patriotic religious groups. The Central Committee of the Communist Party of China circulated the minutes of this meeting.

In 1979, nationwide religious groups and local religious organizations successively resumed activities. Various religious clergy members gradually returned to temples and churches to preside over religious affairs again. Some ethnic religious festivals, which had been banned for many years, gradually resumed.

On January 25, 1980, the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China approved the report by the United Front Work Department on convening a national conference of religious groups. That year, national conferences of the Islamic Association of China, Taoist Association of China, Chinese Patriotic Catholic Association, Chinese Christian "Three-Self" Patriotic Movement Committee and Buddhist Association of China were successively held. Leaders of each religious group were elected, and they drafted activity constitutions, resumed work, and restored and established 164 provincial religious groups and more than 2000 county-level religious groups. On July 16, the State Council approved the report from the Bureau of Religious Affairs and the National Building Commission, returning all property rights of religious group buildings to the groups, and compensating at discounted prices where return was not possible.

In some larger and medium-sized cities, places where religious activities were historically prevalent and where believers congregated, especially in ethnic minority areas, a number of temples, Taoist temples, and churches were gradually restored in a planned and step-by-step manner. On April 1, 1983, the State Council approved the reopening of 163 key Buddhist and Taoist temples in Han areas. The government provided financial assistance for the restoration of some temples and Taoist temples. According to incomplete statistics, from 1980 to 1991, the central government contributed more than 140 million yuan for the renovation of temples, Taoist temples, and churches. By 1992, more than 60,000 religious sites nationwide had reopened.

Since 1980, China has gradually restored and newly established the Chinese Buddhist Academy, Chinese Islamic University, Chinese Christian Nanjing Jinling Union Theological Seminary, Chinese Catholic Holy Philosophy College, Chinese Taoist College and Chinese Tibetan Advanced Buddhist Institute, and 41 other local religious schools. In March 1982, the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China put forward "The Basic Views and Policies on Religious Issues during the Socialist Period of our Country," emphasizing the long-term nature of religious issues under socialist conditions and criticizing attempts to eliminate religion through administrative orders or other coercive measures. It reiterated the policy of respecting and protecting religious freedom, but did not allow religion to interfere with national politics.




From August 29 to September 7, 1979, a Chinese religious delegation, led by Zhao Puchu, the deputy chairman of the China Buddhist Association, and Ding Guangxun, the vice chairman of the China Christian "Three-Self" Patriotic Movement Committee, participated in the Third World Conference on Religion and Peace (WCRP) held in Princeton, New Jersey, USA. In October, the Chinese Muslim Hajj group was allowed to go to Mecca for Hajj for the first time after the "Cultural Revolution", indicating that the Communist Party of China is willing to conditionally restore international exchanges within the domestic religious community. However, they maintained a high vigilance against the infiltration of foreign churches into domestic religions. On March 4, 1980, the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China and the State Council transferred the report from the Religious Affairs Bureau and other departments on the issue of resisting the religious infiltration by foreign churches, pointing out that the harm of foreign religious infiltration should be fully estimated, and efforts should be made to prevent and limit its influence as much as possible.

Looking over the basic situation of religious work during this period, it can be clearly seen that the basic task of the party and government for religious work is to firmly implement the policy of freedom of religious belief, to consolidate and expand the patriotic political alliance of the religious community of all ethnic groups, to strengthen their patriotism and socialist education, to mobilize their positive factors, and to strive together to build a modernized socialist power, to achieve the great cause of unification of the motherland, and to oppose hegemonism and maintain world peace. Under the leadership of the basic tasks, all party members, party committees at all levels, especially the departments in charge of religious work at all levels, seriously summarize and absorb the historical experience of the party's religious work since the founding of New China, further understand and master the objective laws of the occurrence, development and elimination of religion, overcome all difficulties and resistances, and firmly put the party's religious policy on the scientific track of Marxism-Leninism and Mao Zedong Thought.

4. Implementing the united front policy and developing the patriotic united front

After the "Gang of Four" was smashed, the organizations and activities of the various democratic parties gradually recovered. After the third Plenary Session of the 11th CPC Central Committee, with the comprehensive launch of rectification and reform and opening up, the party's united front work was fully restored. The various democratic parties began to play their roles in political consultation and democratic supervision in the country's political life once again, and the party's theory on the united front was also enriched and developed.

In June 1979, Deng Xiaoping, in his opening speech at the second session of the fifth session of the CPPCC National Committee, analyzed the situation of the various classes in China and clearly pointed out the new tasks and changes faced by the united front in the new period, using the two concepts of "socialist workers and patriotic supporters of socialism". He pointed out: "Our country's united front has become a broad alliance led by the working class, based on the alliance of workers and peasants, of socialist workers and patriotic supporters of socialism. The tasks of the united front in the new period and the CPPCC are to mobilize all positive factors, strive to turn negative factors into positive ones, unite all forces that can be united, have the same heart and the same virtue, pool wisdom and strength, maintain and develop a stable and united political situation, and strive to build our country into a modernized socialist power." Soon after, the Central Committee of the Party further proposed that "the greatest united front can be revolutionary and patriotic, now the biggest united front is the return of Taiwan to the motherland, the issue of unification of the motherland". According to this directive, the 14th National United Front Work Conference held in August 1979 used the term "revolutionary patriotic united front". The meeting believed that in the new period, within the united front, although there are such and such contradictions between socialist workers, peasants, intellectuals and other patriotic supporters of socialism, there are no fundamental conflicts of interest.



The basic policy and method of the revolutionary patriotic united front must start from the practical transformation of the main contradictions within the country, strictly distinguish two types of contradictions of different nature, regard the correct handling of contradictions among the people as the general subject, strictly abide by socialist democracy and socialist legal system, correctly handle various contradictions within the united front, actively help non-party people from all walks of life to make new progress and contributions in achieving the four modernizations. For all those who love the motherland, "as long as they agree to the reunification of the motherland, even if they do not approve of the socialist system, we must unite with them."

In October of the same year, the central committee of the Communist Party of China (CPC) submitted the guiding tasks of the united front in the new historical period at the national united front work meeting. This document made a realistic analysis of the fundamental changes in social class situation in the 30 years since the founding of New China, and gave a clear explanation of the nature, policy, and tasks of the united front in the new period. It pointed out: the foundation of China's united front - the worker-peasant alliance, has entered a new stage centered on achieving socialist modernization. The vast majority of intellectuals, including old intellectuals from the old society, are now part of the working class and are an important backbone force for modernization. All ethnic groups in China have formed new socialist relations of unity, friendship, mutual assistance, and cooperation. In the process of modernization, the socialist consistency of all ethnic groups will further develop, and patriotic people of different religions also have great progress. The capitalist class in China no longer exists as a class. They have undergone various tests on the path of socialist transformation and in the struggle with Lin Biao, and the "Gang of Four". The vast majority of them support the leadership of the party and the socialist system. Now, they are contributing to the four modernization efforts either through their own labor or as national cadres. All democratic parties in China have become a political alliance of a part of socialist workers and a part of socialist patriots connected to them, all serving socialism under the leadership of the Chinese Communist Party. A part of people who used to be on the enemy side, such as pardoned war criminals and KMT county-level officials who were pardoned, have turned to the people's side after long-term transformation. The class struggle is no longer the main contradiction in our society. With the strategic shift of the whole Party's work focus, and according to the fundamental changes in domestic class situation, the United Front in the new period should be called the Revolutionary Patriotic United Front. It is a broad alliance of all socialist workers and all patriots. In the new historical period, the task of the united front is: to unite all the forces that can be united, mobilize all positive factors at home and abroad, strive to turn negative factors into positive ones, strive to maintain and develop a stable and united political situation, and work together for the construction of a modern socialist powerful country, the return of Taiwan to the motherland and the great cause of national unification. This document not only has the effect of clearing up the impact of "left" errors in the united front work, but also promotes the implementation of various party policies.

Soon after, the CPC Central Committee proposed the concept of "Patriotic United Front". This is because the concept of the Revolutionary Patriotic United Front has made great strides compared with the past, but this concept still cannot cover a wider range of united front objects and fully adapt to the tasks and requirements of the new historical conditions. In June 1981, the Party's 11th Plenum of the Sixth Plenum of the CPC Central Committee passed the "Resolution on Certain Historical Issues of the Party since the Founding of the People's Republic of China", which clearly stated, "We must unwaveringly unite all the forces that can be united, consolidate and expand the Patriotic United Front."

From December 1981 to January 1982, the 15th National United Front Work Conference further clarified the "Patriotic United Front", emphasizing that the United Front in the new period is still a great weapon of the Party. The meeting believed that for a long time, due to the influence of "left" thinking, there has been a tendency to ignore or even abandon the united front. Recognizing the importance and permanence of the united front is the prerequisite for doing a good job in united front work.



Hu Yaobang said in his speech: "In the new historical period, in the long historical period in the future, the united front will still be necessary, important, and still have strong vitality, and it is still a great weapon of our party." The meeting further clarified the scope and target of the patriotic united front in the new era, proposing that there are two united fronts in the new era, one is the international anti-aggression and expansion united front, and the other is the national patriotic united front. The patriotic united front within the scope of the nation is the widest united front of all socialist workers, patriots who support socialism, and patriots who support national unity. Over a long period of time in the future, the targets of united front work aren't getting fewer and fewer, but more and more; the range of united front activities are not becoming narrower and narrower, but wider and wider. The targets of the united front work within the scope of the country alone can involve ten aspects: 

1. Democratic parties; 
2. Non-party celebrities, mainly patriots; 
3. Non-party intellectual cadres; 
4. Uprising and surrendering former Kuomintang military and political personnel; 
5. Former rich businessmen;  
6. Top figures of ethnic minorities; 
7. Patriotic religious leaders; 
8. Family and friends of those returning to Taiwan and remaining on the mainland; 
9. Taiwanese and Hong Kong and Macao compatriots; 
10. Returning overseas Chinese and overseas Chinese.

The concept of the "Patriotic United Front" reflects the development of the party's united front theory. This understanding accurately expresses the historical features of the united front in the new era. Transitioning from the "Revolutionary Patriotic United Front" to the "Patriotic United Front," this change advances the party's united front theory while also making the united front policy more in line with the social reality of our country in the new era. As for the patriotism in the Patriotic United Front, it is "essentially socialist patriotism, but it has a broader range than socialism, including patriots who support national unity but do not necessarily favor socialism or have doubts about socialism. Proposing the Patriotic United Front is a combination of principle and flexibility."

Regarding the relationship between the Communist Party and the various democratic parties and other non-party patriotic democrats in the United Front, Mao Zedong proposed the eight-character guideline of "long-term coexistence, mutual supervision" as early as April 1956. This guideline reflects the history and reality of the Chinese revolution, representing both the Chinese Communist Party's advocacy for long-term coexistence with various democratic parties and the equal status of various democratic parties. However, from the late 1950s to the end of the "Cultural Revolution," this correct guideline for handling the relationship between the Chinese Communist Party and the various democratic parties was not well implemented, especially during the "Cultural Revolution," when the work and activities of the democratic parties were forced to stop. After the Third Plenary Session of the 11th Central Committee of the Party, the Chinese Communist Party reaffirmed its policy of "long-term coexistence, mutual supervision" with various democratic parties. Deng Xiaoping also clearly stated, "This is a long-term unchanging guideline."

Entering the new period of reform and opening up, with the profound changes in the class relations in our country, the class color of the various democratic parties in our country has gradually faded, and they have essentially become a part of the socialist workers' party. To adapt to this change, the Chinese Communist Party developed the "eight-character guideline" guiding the relationship between the democratic parties into the "sixteen-character guideline." Hu Yaobang pointed out at the 15th National United Front Work Conference in January 1982: "Our comrades should "make friends with all non-party people, and then turn the widespread acquaintance into true friends, and then reach a relationship of sharing weal and woe"; "We should clearly tell the party comrades and non-party friends that in the new historical period, we must establish a true weal-and-woe relationship with non-party friends". This is the first time the Chinese Communist Party has proposed the eight-character phrase "sharing weal and woe" in united front work.



In September of the same year, Hu Yaobang, in his report at the 12th Congress of the Party, combined the two eight-character slogans of "long-term coexistence, mutual supervision" and "share weal and woe" for the first time, putting forward the principle that our Party should continue to adhere to "long-term coexistence, mutual supervision, sharing weal and woe", and strengthen cooperation with various democratic parties, non-party democrats, ethnic minority figures, and patriotic figures in religious circles. In November of the same year, Deng Xiaoping also emphasized the 16-character principle of "long-term coexistence, mutual supervision, sharing weal and woe" in his speech at the opening of the Fifth Session of the Fifth National Committee of the Political Consultative Conference, thus formally establishing these 16 characters as the fundamental guiding principle for the relationship between the Communist Party of China and the various democratic parties in the new era. The proposal of the 16-character principle is in line with the objective realities of the new era of reform, opening up and socialist modernization, benefitting the role of democratic parties and democrats, encouraging them to participate in the common management of national affairs, long-term cooperation, and making the unity between the CPC and the various democratic parties even closer.

After the 12th National Congress of the Party, with the full unfolding of reform and opening up and the implementation of the "one country, two systems" principle, the united front has further taken on the dual tasks of serving socialist modernization and the reunification of the motherland, with a wider scope and richer content. In this context, the 16th National United Front Work Conference held from the end of November to December 1986 proposed the idea of "Two Alliances". One is the alliance of all workers and patriots on the mainland, based on socialism; the other includes compatriots in Taiwan, Hong Kong, Macao, and overseas Chinese, based on patriotism and support for the reunification of the motherland. These two alliances not only constitute the whole of the united front in the new era, but also constitute an important new feature of socialism with Chinese characteristics.

Chapter Three: Strengthening the Party's Leadership in the Field of Thought and Culture and Scientific Evaluation of Mao Zedong's Historical Position

I. Denial of Class Struggle as Guideline & Reaffirming the Four Fundamental Principles.

After a thorough debate on the criterion of truth, especially after the central work meeting and the third plenary session, the error of "all of which" was severely criticized, and the party's ideological line of seeking truth from facts was reestablished. However, the disagreements and debates on the ideological line within the Party have not been completely eliminated. Not only that, but two erroneous tendencies emerged within the Party and society. One group influenced by the '"leftist" errors is still petrified or semi-petrified, doubting or even resisting the lines and policies of the Third Plenary Session of the 11th Central Committee. The other group among some people denies socialism and the leadership of the Party.  To ensure the shift in the party's focus for work and to promote modernization under the new situation, the Central Committee explicitly proposed the adherence to the Four Fundamental Principles.

1. Proposal of the thought of a political foundation for modernization in the new situation

In the climax of ideological liberation, China entered 1979. On the first day of the New Year, Deng Xiaoping highly assessed the new political situation and social atmosphere at a symposium held by the National Committee of the Political Consultative Conference, and for the first time, he raised the issue of the political foundation for modernization. 

Deng Xiaoping stated that Chairman Mao's political situation in 1957, characterized by concentration and democracy, discipline and freedom, unified will and personal sentiment, lively and vivid, gradually formed last year. This kind of atmosphere and situation, generally speaking, is called a lively and vivid political scene. It is necessary to uphold and develop this atmosphere and situation across the country, and uphold and develop it in the Party, government, military, and people. This is the political foundation for realizing the Four Modernizations. Without such a political scene, the Four Modernizations cannot be realized. For a long time in the past, we did not do well on the relationship between democracy and concentration, with less emphasis on democracy. Therefore, we should promote democracy more.

Deng Xiaoping's speech represents the central spirit and is the consensus of the Party Central Leadership Collective.



On January 2, Hua Guofeng emphasized in his report to Hu Yaobang on the national political and ideological situation that we must firmly establish the democratic life of our party and national. This is a political guideline decided at the Third Plenary Session and is unswerving. We must properly guide party members and leaders. Party committees at all levels and newspapers are to guide our democratization process in a healthy and orderly manner to avoid detours.

After experiencing a major change, especially for China, which has just passed the "Cultural Revolution" and is emerging from the shadow of the "Two Whatevers", re-examination and establishment of the political basis for China's modernization is one of the historical meanings of this transformation. Therefore, once the issue of political basis was raised, it immediately triggered a wide social response. Major media outlets such as the People's Daily and the Liberation Army Daily continuously published editorials, signed articles, and investigative reports to further elaborate on the political basis of modernization. Within less than a month, People's Daily published successive articles such as "People's Representatives Must Be Elected by the People", "Democracy and Rule of Law are Political Guarantees for Achieving the Four Modernizations", "Promoting Democracy and Achieving the Four Modernizations", "There Must Be a Sound Democratic Life Within the Party", and "Proletarian Democracy and Proletarian Dictatorship". They emphasized, "Achieving socialist modernization is inseparable from the great promotion of socialist democracy. The four modernizations must be accompanied by democratization in politics," urging "to expand this democratic style to the entire party, the entire military, and all ethnic groups across the country as required by the Third Plenary Session".

In such a social atmosphere, the preparatory work for Theoretical Work Club began.

The Theoretical Work Club was originally proposed by Ye Jianying. As for when this suggestion was specifically made, the authoritative biography of Ye Jianying's lifetime activities, "Ye Jianying Chronicle," does not record it, but Hu Yaobang's speech at the Theoretical Work Club and the "Deng Xiaoping Chronicle" provides an important corroboration.

Hu Yaobang pointed out in the "Preface to the Theoretical Work Club" that: Last May, an important development on the ideological and theoretical front was the beginning of the discussion about practice being the only criterion for testing truth, which caused a storm on China's ideological and theoretical front. In September of last year, the editors of the Hongqi Magazine wrote a long article called "Revisiting the 'Theory of Practice-Preamble on Practice as the Basis of Marxist Epistemology'". The article reached the Standing Committee. Comrade Ye Jianying suggested that the Central Committee hold a Theoretical Work Club, where different opinions are put forward, and after a full democratic discussion, everyone can reach a unified understanding and resolve this issue.

On October 14th, 1978, Deng Xiaoping also mentioned in a conversation with Wei Guoqing: Ye Jianying proposed a Theoretical Work Club, so to speak, to avoid talking behind the back, this is good.

Subsequently, Hua Guofeng officially proposed in his speech at the closing ceremony of the Central Work Conference that: At this conference, comrades have put forward many situations about the issue that "practice is the only standard for testing truth", and have raised many questions, and gave many critical comments to some comrades, which created favorable conditions for the convening of the Theoretical Work Club. Because the central work conference has many topics and limited time, it is impossible to spend a lot of time solving these problems. The comrades of the Central Political Bureau still follow Marshal Ye's proposal and convene a Theoretical Work Club after the Third Plenary Session of the 11th Central Committee to further resolve this issue.

The preparation for the Theoretical Work Club was chaired by Hu Yaobang.

On January 7, 1979, Hu Yaobang wrote to the Standing Committee of the Central Political Bureau, submitting the draft of the "Preface" and conference notice, which were to serve as the opening remarks for the Theoretical Work Club. The letter said: I have considered a preliminary idea for launching the Theoretical Work Club: first invite about two hundred theoretical workers in Beijing to attend the conference in late January or early February, lasting about twenty days. Then take a few days off and report to the central government.




We kindly invite approximately 200 theorists from all parts of the country, aggregating to around 400 participants, to attend a ten-day conference. The first phase of the assembly mainly focuses on group discussions, group talks, and combined conference speeches, encouraging an open exchange of ideas and free speech. In the second phase, we have invited Comrade Kingdom Peak, Comrade Jian Ying, and Comrade Xiao Ping to guide everyone in focused discussions, aiming to address some important issues urgently needing resolution on the ideological and theoretical front. By fostering democracy first, and then concentration, we seek to unify thoughts, thereby bettering theoretical work following a shift in the focus of the entire party's work.

After the issuance of Hu Yaobang's preface to "The Working-Theoretical Work Meeting" and the accompanying letter, approval was quickly received from the Standing Committee members of Central Politburo. Hua Guofeng was the first to voice his approval.

On January 9th, Hu Yaobang presided over the Ministry of Publicity departmental meeting, officially setting the specific agenda for the Theoretical Work Meeting: 
(1) The meeting begins on January 18th. 
(2) Locations: Friendship Hotel, Jingxi Hotel. 
(3) The meeting is divided into two phases: the first phase, spanning 20 days (ten days before and after the Spring Festival), hosts 200 participants, mainly from Beijing, with one representative sent from each province, municipality, and autonomous region, with group meetings as the primary focus; the second phase, lasting ten days, hosts 400 participants (200 from Beijing and 200 from other regions), convened in the name of the Communist Party Central Committee, inviting the Central Chairman and Vice Chairman to speak at the conference, with the main conference as the main feature. Both phases are separated by a one-week break. 
(4) Members of the Theoretical Work Meeting Steering Committee: Hu Yaobang, Hu Qiaomu, Huang Zhen, Zhu Muzhi, Hu Jiwei, Yu Guangyuan, Zhou Yang, Tong Dalin, Wu Lengxi, Wu Jiang, Hu Sheng. 
(5) Drafting group members for conference documents: Hu Yaobang, Hu Qiaomu, Yu Guangyuan, Wu Jiang, Ruan Ming, Lin Jianqing, Lee Honglin.

Although the conference later greatly exceeded the original schedule in terms of time, and adjustments were made in procedures and content, under Hu Yaobang's meticulous preparation, the Theoretical Work Meeting officially commenced on January 18th.

2. The Hosting of the Theoretical Work Meeting
Hu Yaobang presided over the opening ceremony. At the beginning of the meeting, he announced the names of the conference Steering Committee, and concurrently revealed the names of the five group conveners. 

The group conveners also served as the heads and deputy heads of their respective groups. In addition to these, there were 20 specially invited attendees, all veteran comrades, taking their health and work into consideration, they were notified that they could freely attend, and documents and newsletters were distributed accordingly.

At the opening ceremony, Hu Yaobang delivered a speech, the main content of which was the preface to "The Working-Theoretical Work Meeting."

During his speech, Hu Yaobang highly praised the achievements made in rectifying the chaos in the ideological and theoretical circles since 1977. He deemed the ideological and theoretical work accomplished over the past two years as the most outstanding and fruitful since the establishment of the New China in terms of scale, combat utility, and its contribution to the elevation of the entire Party's theoretical level, and can be regarded as the finest and most fruitful work in theory after the Yan'an Rectification campaign. He commended theorists as vanguard fighters on the ideological and theoretical frontlines, asserting that the emergence of a group of excellent pioneers has bolstered the strength of our Marxist theoretical contingent, and was an impressive achievement. He noted that it's a rarity in history for theoretical work to become a truly mass activity as it is today. Looking at the world, not many nations – like the Chinese people - show such concern for theoretical issues or have such theoretical interest – a treasure of our national spirit.



On the issue of how theoretical propaganda work adapts to changes in the key focuses of the Party and the country, Hu Yaobang proposed an overall guiding principle in his speech. He said that the fundamental task of theoretical propaganda work after the shift in the Party's main work can be summarized as follows: closely combining the universal truths of Marxism-Leninism and Mao Zedong Thought with the great practice of achieving four modernizations, studying new issues, solving new problems, making our theoretical work as advanced as possible, continuously enriching and developing Marxism-Leninism and Mao Zedong Thought in practice, and guiding us to win the victory in the new Long March. 

The meeting was conducted in groups from the second day. On January 22, Hu Yaobang specially conveyed Deng Xiaoping's views on the theoretical work conference to the congress. Deng Xiaoping emphasized the need for open-minded discussions. There are still many truths to talk about and it should be quicker. Many theoretical problems have not been clarified yet, for example: democracy, law issues, economic management problems. The "Cultural Revolution" can also be discussed. The issues of continuing revolution under the proletarian dictatorship can also be discussed. In the future, don't mention "raising the banner of Chairman Mao", we should mention "upholding the banner of Mao Zedong Thought". Following Deng Xiaoping's instructions and the preliminary discussions of the groups after the beginning of the meeting, Hu Yaobang gave another speech, summarizing several major issues for the congress to study deeply. These issues include: how to discuss the truth standard issue in depth; the class struggle during the socialist period, how the party's basic theory came about; the experiences and lessons of theoretical work since the founding of New China; the evaluation of the "Cultural Revolution", the nature, requirements, lessons, etc. of the "Cultural Revolution"; the issue of socialist democracy; the outstanding issue of personal propaganda; and so on.

Subsequently, the meeting discussion was heatedly unfolded. Each group's speech was sent to the congress secretariat, which printed and distributed detailed briefings to each participant. Therefore, the situation was exchanged very timely. During this stage, a total of 262 briefings were sent out. Despite the fact that Hu Yaobang had clearly requested that the conference materials and discussion content should not be spread outside, the range of briefings sent out was quite wide, resulting in many readers and the quick spread of the conference's impact in society.

Almost at the same time as the central theoretical work conference was being held, Shandong, Shanghai, Fujian, Guangdong, Liaoning, Hunan, Jiangsu and other provinces and cities also spontaneously held meetings with the same content before the Spring Festival, with about fifty to sixty attendees, and up to three hundred in Shanghai.

The first stage of the theoretical work conference ended in mid-February 1979, and the second stage began in late March. During the second stage, four or five hundred people were invited to attend, including not only members of the original central units, but also comrades from various provinces and cities (mainly secretaries and ministers of propaganda who are responsible for ideological and propaganda work in the party committee), and the theoretical work conference continued until April 3 before it ended.

Judging from the progress of the first stage of the conference, the theoretical work conference adhered to the democratic atmosphere restored by the Third Plenary Session of the 11th Central Committee of the Party, insisted on the principles and direction of liberating thought, not only continued to critically review the erroneous guiding thinking of "whatever", but also challenged the so-called "forbidden zones", conducted in-depth discussions on many important theoretical issues, such as some statements about the class struggle during the socialist period, the theory of continuing revolution under the proletarian dictatorship, the reflection of the social class struggle in the party struggle, the stage of socialism in China, the opposition to personal superstition, socialist democracy, economic theory and practical problems, etc. It provided decision-making references for the central government, many of which were very valuable. Many of the issues raised at the meeting that needed to be discussed, through subsequent research and practice, were gradually resolved, promoting and facilitating the formation and development of the theory and undertakings of socialism with Chinese characteristics.

However, at this conference, due to a lack of comprehensive analysis of the situation after the Third Plenary Session of the 11th Central Committee of the Party, and a lack of systematic analysis and research on the rapidly changing ideological situation, inadequate theoretical preparation, some speeches by representatives also had apparent erroneous tendencies and vague understandings.




And this situation is intertwined with the complex social environment, presenting new challenges for the emerging new situation of socialist construction.

3. Presentation of Social Instability Factors under the New Situation

Prior to the theoretical work conference, some areas had produced societal contradictions due to various problems left over from the "Cultural Revolution". Some people took the opportunity to cause trouble, making various demands that were not feasible or outright unreasonable under the current circumstances. They incited the masses to strike at party and government institutions, occupy offices, stage sit-in hunger strikes, and disrupt traffic. Most seriously, agitation by these people had risen into a wave of unrest in many places, severely damaging working, production, and social order. During this process, there was a trend of doubt or even denial of the Communist Party's leadership, the socialist system, the dictatorship of the proletariat, and Mao Zedong Thought. Starting from late October 1978, the "Xidan Democracy Wall" became the main front for these propagandas and activities.

On January 6, 1979, Ren Huo village and six others posted a mimeographed flyer titled "Chinese Human Rights Declaration", announcing the establishment of the so-called "Chinese Human Rights Alliance", proposing a 12-point program, and delivered it to foreign journalists, claiming "Our alliance asks for support from human rights organizations and the public around the world", asking the President of the United States to "care" about China's human rights.

A female worker in Beijing, along with some petitioners, organized a "Citizen's Petition Group". With the support of some organizations, they paraded and demonstrated in Tiananmen Square under the banner of "anti-hunger, anti-persecution, for human rights, for democracy", and petitioned at the gate of Xinhua. Tens of thousands of onlooking crowds caused serious traffic obstruction. On January 18, the Beijing city detained this female worker, the "Chinese Human Rights Alliance" and the other six organizations, and mimeographed publication, i.e. "United Statement", which were planning to hold a mass accusatory meeting at the Xidan Democracy Wall and then petition at Zhongnanhai.

At the time, along with the activities at Xidan Democracy Wall, there were also emerging some grassroots organizations and publications. The attention to Wei Jingsheng and his "Probe" started around this time.

Wei Jingsheng was a worker at Beijing Park Service Management Bureau, and the chief editor of the mimeographed publication "Probe". Between December 1978 and March 1979, he consistently wrote articles and distributed publications, accusing Marxism-Leninism and Mao Zedong Thought as "nothing more than slightly more refined elixirs of charlatans" and slandering the state system of proletarian dictatorship as being "feudalist monarchy cloaked in the garments of socialism". He incited the masses, saying "Don't believe in the 'stability and unity' of the dictator anymore", "Focus the fury on the evil system that creates the tragic plight of people", and agitated to "Seize power from these Lords". Some of his articles were posted on the Xidan Wall, some were published on "Probe". This publication had been widely posted, distributed, and sold in Beijing and Tianjin.

In addition to that, eight workers in Guiyang initiated the establishment of the "Enlightenment Society", with the main branch in Guiyang,and a branch in Beijing, growing to more than 30 people. They propagated the concepts of "democracy", "freedom", "human rights" in the capitalist world. In March 1979, the main individuals responsible for the "Enlightenment Society" set up the "Thaw Society" in Beijing, declaring that they want to "abolish class struggle, violent revolution, and all forms of dictatorship".

Similar organizations and publications had also cropped up in Guangzhou, Wuhan, Shanghai, and other places.

As for how to understand and assess these new occurrences in the ideological theoretical realm, there were differing perspectives within the party and the theory community, with some people having sympathetic or even supporting attitudes towards these new social trends and social problems.

At the Theory Work conference, someone suggested that "The central government should express support for the Democracy Wall." Someone said, "Even under the conditions of socialism, democracy is achieved through the people rising up and striving for it. This can only be achieved by breaking the resistance of bureaucrats and opportunists, and the suppression by overly concentrated bureaucratic power."



"Democracy can never depend on anyone's gift," one person says. "The main issue now is that democracy is not prevailing enough, rather than too much, it is not about correcting deviations." Another person claims, "what we should be vigilant about now is not the tendency of liberation of thought or democracy to go too far, and we should not have a new anti-right wave. The 'left' aspects have not been criticized enough, if the anti-right side is brought up, it will hinder criticism of the 'left', affect the liberation of thought, and may even go backwards. The so-called 'right' can never be regarded as a critical tendency to oppose. As for isolated cases, they can be guided through practical work. For such issues, one should stay alert intellectually, but there is no need to publicly oppose it as a tendency in theoretical propaganda." Some people suggested setting up a "Democratic Wall" column in the newspaper for posting large-character posters. Some even say: "Mao Zedong's thought should also be divided into two parts, seeing it that it contains some errors; it is going too far to say 'without Chairman Mao there would be no new China’ and ‘Chairman Mao's contribution is never overestimated’". These conversations and discussions clearly show that theoretical work has deviated in facing new situations and problems.
4. The Initial Response to New Erroneous Tendencies
Various new situations inside and outside the Party and both domestically and internationally, particularly the content of the discussions at the Party's academic research session, alerted Deng Xiaoping. He keenly perceived the gravity of these issues and therefore, from March 1979 onwards, he issued multiple speeches and talks, clearly advocating the importance of adhering to the four fundamental principles.
On March 16, 1979, at the report meeting on the Sino-Vietnamese border dispute held by the Central Committee of the CCP, Deng Xiaoping very explicitly pointed out the necessity to uphold the great banner of Chairman Mao. He held, to negate Mao is to negate the People's Republic of China and the entire history of the Party. Without Mao, there would be no new China. This is history. It implies that without the guidance of Mao Zedong Thought, we might still be struggling in darkness. When we write articles, we must pay attention to uphold the great banner of Chairman Mao and never hurt this banner in any way. Domestic and foreign class enemies want us to fall into chaos on such important matters. We need to tell the members of the Communist Party and the people not to fall into it. The key is to maintain stability and unity now. Dealing with left-over issues is for the sake of focusing on the future. He seriously indicated to the over-enthusiastic behavior of some educated young people demanding resettlement, that we must tell them, what would be the result of all these commotions and breaking into governmental organizations? Wasn't the past lesson enough? Once everything collapses, what hope is there for the Four Modernizations? What about stability and unity? All leadership bodies are engaging energy in dealing with these issues, leaving no energy for the Four Modernizations. What hope can there be for the improvement of people's livelihood and the development of the national economy? We should speak of the local and whole, the immediate and far-reaching issues. These issues need to be communicated to all the people. He stated, why are some people so envious of the foreign human rights movement and why don't they organize a rebuttal? To those supporting Carter’s human rights in the "Democratic Wall" letters, what human rights do imperialists have! Imperialism has killed so many people, and it has helped Chiang Kai-shek kill so many people in China. Imperialists have no qualification to talk about human rights. Why don't we use these living facts to educate the people? He severely pointed out, it is absolutely correct to arrest those instigators of trouble according to the law. Deng Xiaoping's talk first raised alarm among high-ranking party officials, which then conveyed to party officials at the county and league levels, indicating the stance of the Central Committee. 
On March 27, Deng Xiaoping discussed with Hu Yaobang and Hu Qiaomu some of the main points and ideas he planned to elaborate on at a Party academic research session. He said, the four persists, persisting in the socialist path, proletarian dictatorship, the party's leadership, and the fundamental principles of Marxism-Leninism and Mao Zedong Thought, should be discussed now.



Deng Xiaoping said, whether socialism's public ownership is good, or capitalism's private ownership is good? As long as our work is done well, and construction is carried out according to economic laws, it is certain that socialism's public ownership is better than capitalism's private ownership, and socialism is better than capitalism. Speaking of the party leadership, we should talk about history. Without the Communist Party, there would be no new China, without the Communist Party, there would be no socialism. Which difficult hurdle we encountered was not overcome under the leadership of the party? The evaluation of Chairman Mao must be discussed. The current speeches are not prominent enough, the weight is not enough. With the October Revolution and the acceptance of Marxism-Leninism, the Chinese Communist Party was established and a new China emerged. All of these cannot be separated from Chairman Mao. Only by proposing the theory of the division of the three worlds, Chairman Mao enabled us to break away from the state of international isolation. It is not possible without the dictatorship of the proletariat. Regarding the actual conditions at home and abroad, we still need to prevent the restoration of capitalism. 

Deng Xiaoping said: The issues of democracy and legal system need to be fully discussed. We need to discuss the relationship between democracy and centralization, the immediate interests and long-term interests, and the relationship between personal interests and national interests. In discussing democracy, it is necessary to explain what socialist democracy is by analyzing the activities of several illegal organizations. The conclusion is, can we not uphold the four continuous actions? Can we not take the bad people in society seriously? This may be more powerful and targeted. If the language is too vague, it will not be prominent and lack persuasive power, and the power to mobilize will also be lacking. We need to mobilize the masses to fight against these bad people. He also pointed out that democracy is a democracy under the guidance of high concentration, and concentration is a concentration based on a high degree of democracy. We must develop democracy, fully utilize the wisdom of the people, and mobilize the enthusiasm of the people. Only on the basis of democracy can we solve bureaucracy and the will of the authorities. However, without a high degree of concentration based on democracy, these cannot be achieved. Talking about party leadership emphasizes the need for unified leadership and authority. Without the unified leadership of the party, there is no efficiency. With the unified leadership of the party, as long as this leadership is correct, our adjustments will be fast, and the construction speed will be fast. If we are not unified, nothing will be achieved. Lenin strongly emphasized centralized unity and discipline. Our revolutionary war was won under high concentration and high discipline. 

Deng Xiaoping sternly pointed out that the Democracy Wall actually has a program. Those who misuse democracy and the Democracy Wall to do bad things, sell intelligence, and inform foreign countries should be banned. We need to separate the minority of bad people from the masses.



To mobilize the masses to fight against these villains. Without stopping the troublemakers, without opposing these villains, there is no hope for the Four Modernizations. The destructive activities and absurd theories of some illegal organizations in Shanghai and Beijing are opposed by the majority. What they are doing is the same as Lin Biao and the "Gang of Four". These people just want chaos. We need to tell people, especially young people, not to be fooled by them. Their nature, ideological system, and organizational goals are against socialism, against the dictatorship of the proletariat, against the Communist Party, against Marxism-Leninism, and Mao Zedong Thought.

During the conversation, Deng Xiaoping also criticized the problems in the theoretical field. He said that the ideological and theoretical front cannot be said to have truly implemented the shift in focus. There is a tendency to dwell on old scores. There is less publicity of the spirit of the Third Plenary Session of the 11th Central Committee of the Communist Party of China, and there are some ambiguous and even radical expressions. This is not good, not conducive to unity and progress, not conducive to mobilizing the enthusiasm of the people, not conducive to striving for the Four Modernizations. Why not publicize the good traditions of the party more? Traditional education includes discipline, hard work and consideration of the overall situation. Theory should serve politics. The largest politics in the country is now to unite and look forward, striving for the Four Modernizations. To implement the Four Modernizations, we will encounter many difficulties and the masses should be prepared. Many new issues need to be researched and answered by theorists, but such theorists are currently lacking.

5. The Formal Proposal of the Four Fundamental Principles
On March 30, three days after the resumption of the theoretical work conference, Deng Xiaoping delivered a famous speech at the Great Hall of the People on behalf of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China, titled "Adhering to the Four Fundamental Principles".
The speech is strongly targeted, but it does not focus on specific issues, but deeply elaborates on the unique political basis and connotation of modernization construction in the Chinese style.
Deng Xiaoping proposed adhering to the four fundamental principles as a basic condition for achieving the Four Modernizations, and emphatically emphasized that the "four fundamental principles" are one of the basic connotations of the newly proposed "China-style Four Modernizations".
Deng Xiaoping pointed out that in the past, the democratic revolution had to adapt to Chinese conditions and take the path of Mao Zedong's encirclement of cities from rural areas. Now in construction, it also needs to adapt to Chinese conditions and take a Chinese-style modernization path.
To achieve the Four Modernizations in China, at least two important characteristics must be recognized:
One is the lack of basis. The long-term destruction of imperialism, feudalism, and bureaucratic capitalism has made China a poor and backward country.



After the founding of New China, our economic construction has achieved great achievements, establishing a relatively complete industrial system and cultivating a batch of technical talents. The average annual growth rate of our industry and agriculture from the time of liberation until last year is relatively high in the world. However, due to the thin foundation, China is still one of the poorest countries in the world. China's scientific and technological strength is insufficient, and the level of science and technology is generally lagging behind the advanced countries in the world for twenty to thirty years. In the past thirty years, our economy has gone through two rises and two falls, especially the great destruction of the national economy by Lin Biao and the "Gang of Four" from 1966 to 1976, the consequences of which are extremely serious. Now we want to adjust, that is, to further eliminate this serious consequence.

Another issue is the large population and the lack of arable land. There are now more than 900 million people in the country, eighty percent of whom are farmers. Having many people has both advantages and disadvantages. Under the conditions of insufficient production, eating, education, and employment have all become serious problems. We need to vigorously strengthen family planning work, but even if the population does not increase several years later, the problem of high population will still exist for a period. We have abundant resources, which is our advantage. But many resources have not been fully explored, and they have not been exploited and used, so they are not effective means of production yet. The land area is vast, but the arable land is very small. The situation of less arable land and a lot of population especially farmers is not easy to change. This is a feature that must be considered in China's modernization construction.

Chinese-style modernization must start from China's own characteristics. For example, modern production only requires fewer people, but we have such a large population. How can we balance these two aspects? If we don't balance these two aspects, we will face a long-term social problem of insufficient employment. There are many problems here that need to be studied by comrades from the whole party who are doing practical work and theoretical work. We can certainly find appropriate methods to solve them properly.

Then, Deng Xiaoping changed the subject and pointed out that the Central Committee believes that if we want to achieve the four modernizations in China, we must adhere to the four basic principles in thought and politics. These are the fundamental prerequisites to achieving the four modernizations. These four are: First, we must adhere to the socialist road; Second, we must maintain the dictatorship of the proletariat; Third, we must maintain the leadership of the Communist Party; Fourth, we must adhere to Marxism-Leninism and Mao Zedong Thought.

Deng Xiaoping said, as everyone knows, these four basic principles are not new things. They are what our party has consistently stuck to for a long time. From the smashing of the "Gang of Four" to the Third Plenary Session, the series of policies implemented by the Central Committee of the Party have always adhered to these four basic principles.

In practice and theory, we have criticized the "Gang of Four"'s advocacy of universal poverty under the guise of extreme leftist fake socialism. We stuck to the principles of socialist public ownership and distribution according to work.



We adhere to the principle of self-reliance, supplemented by seeking foreign aid, and learning and introducing advanced foreign technology for the development of our socialist economic construction. We try to act according to objective economic laws, which is to say, we adhere to scientific socialism. 
We have smashed the feudal fascism of the "Gang of Four", redressed a large number of wrongful cases, resolved a series of historical issues, consolidated the proletarian dictatorship, and restored and developed socialist democracy, especially after the Third Plenary Session, a vibrant political situation that Comrade Mao Zedong had hoped for many years was realized. 
We have restored the party's three major styles that were damaged, perfected the party's democratic centralism, and strengthened the unity of the whole party and the unity of the party and the masses, thereby greatly enhancing the prestige of the party and strengthened the leadership of the party over the state and social life. 
We have broken the mental shackles created by Lin Biao and the "Gang of Four". We insist that leaders are humans, not gods; we grasp the scientific system of Marxism-Leninism and Mao Zedong Thought in a complete and accurate way; and we proceed from reality and seek truth from facts. This has restored the true features of Mao Zedong Thought and maintained the high status that Comrade Mao Zedong, as a great revolutionary, should enjoy in the history of Chinese revolution and world revolution. 
Deng Xiaoping pointed out that despite this, the Central Committee believed it was necessary to emphasize and propagate these four fundamental principles. On one side, some in the party are still deeply poisoned by the extreme leftist thoughts of Lin Biao and the "Gang of Four". A small number of individuals even spread rumors and slander, attacking the Central Committee's violation of Marxism-Leninism and Mao Zedong Thought in its series of policies since the smashing of the "Gang of Four" and especially after the Third Plenary Session. On the other side, a small number of individuals in society are disseminating thoughts that doubt or oppose these four fundamental principles. Yet inside the party, a few comrades not only fail to recognize the danger of these thoughts but even directly or indirectly offer some degree of support. Although these individuals are few in number both inside and outside the party, we cannot ignore their impact. The facts have shown that they have caused, and can cause, significant harm to our cause. Therefore, we must both continue to firmly purge the poison of the "Gang of Four" and help comrades who are still under its influence wake up, and also strike at the reactionary speeches slandering the Central Committee spread by a small number of individuals. At the same time, we must make great efforts to resolutely combat the thoughts that doubt the four basic principles mentioned above. Both of these streams of thought violate Marxism-Leninism and Mao Zedong Thought and impede the progress of our socialist modernization. 
Then, Deng Xiaoping emphatically refuted the thoughts of doubting or opposing the four basic principles from the right, with a clear viewpoint, profound depth, and highly persuasive arguments. 
In the summary section, Deng Xiaoping especially pointed out that the Central Committee considers it necessary to repeatedly stress the adherence to these four basic principles today, as there are individuals (even if only a very few) attempting to shake these basic principles. This is absolutely impermissible. Every Communist Party member, let alone every party ideological and theoretical worker, is not allowed to waver in the slightest on this basic position. If any of the four basic principles are shaken, then the entire socialist cause and the entire modernization project are shaken. 
At the historical turning point when the party and the state were correcting chaos and shifting the focus of work to socialist modernization, Deng Xiaoping, on behalf of the Central Committee, put forward the four basic principles for the first time in a clear and complete manner, and gave them a profound and systematic explanation, whose significance is deep and profound. Since then, the four basic principles, as an important theme in our country's political life, have become the foundation of our party's policy-making, and continue to be enriched and perfected with the development of practice.




In 1982, the Four Basic Principles was officially incorporated into the Party Constitution and state Constitution, becoming the common will of the whole Party and the people of the country. The 13th Party Congress regarded the adherence to the Four Basic Principles as a fundamental point in the basic line of the Party at the primary stage of socialism. The 14th Congress listed it as a "foundation of the state" and a basic part of Deng Xiaoping's theory of socialism with Chinese characteristics. The 15th Congress established Deng Xiaoping's theory as the guiding thought of the Party, and the Four Basic Principles as an integral part of Deng Xiaoping's theory was highly reaffirmed. The Four Basic Principles are a high summary of the long-term historical experience of our Party and country and are the common political foundation for the unified struggle of the whole Party and the people of the country.

Vincent: The "Remedial Class" of the Discussion on the Criteria of Truth

After the "Working Conference on Theoretical Issues", the trend of opposing the Four Basic Principles from the right was quickly defeated. However, the long-standing rigid or semi-rigid state of mind is hard to overcome in a short term, the "leftist" thinking tendency is still quite serious, and it has become a major obstacle to rectification. 

1. Proposal of the Issue of Remedial Classes in the Discussion on the Criteria of Truth

The promotion of democracy and the liberation of thought since the Third Plenary Session of the Eleventh Central Committee has just begun. Yet some people believe that it has gone too far. Some people wrongly attribute the chaos once appeared in society to the Third Plenary Session, believing that these chaotic phenomena were caused by the promotion of democracy and the liberation of thought. Some others pit the Four Basic Principles against the line of the Third Plenary Session of the Eleventh Central Committee, viewing the Four Basic Principles as a "correction" of the Third Plenary Session. All these incorrect views in cadres' minds suggest that it is still a major long-term task of the ideological and theoretical front to continue liberating our minds and overcome rigid thinking. Therefore, it is important and urgent to continue a profound discussion on the criteria of truth, further rectify the Party's ideological line.

On May 21, 1979, The People’s Liberation Army Daily published a commentary titled “Unswervingly Continue to Implement the Spirit of the Third Plenary Session”. The article pointed out some ideological understanding problems that emerged in the process of implementing the spirit of the Third Plenary Session. The article explains that the discussion on practice being the sole criterion for testing truth had a great effect in liberating thought. However, many units in the army did not carry out this discussion. The article proposed that our army comrades must hurry to make up this lesson, and re-study the Third Plenary Session documents. This earliest, clearest proposal of a “make-up class” for the discussion on the criterion of truth.

On May 22, 1979, People's Daily republished this commentary in a prominent position on the first page, with the title, "Re-study the Third Plenary Session Documents and Make Up the Lesson on the Criterion of Truth". This was the first time that People's Daily explicitly proposed to "make up classes".

2. Various Localities and Departments Respond to the Remedial Discussion on the Criteria of Truth

Starting from May 1979, leaders from various regions and departments gave speeches, analysed the situation, and pointed out that the main current issue was still the liberation of thought. Local Party committees and propaganda departments also held meetings in succession, emphasising that practice is the sole criterion for testing truth, and continuing to conduct in-depth discussions on the criteria of truth. The official newspapers of central and local Party also published many articles on this aspect.



In mid-May, Feng Wenbin, Vice President of the Central Party School, pointed out during a report to all students of the school: The main obstacle to implementing the policies of the Third Plenary Session of the Central Committee still lies in the ideological rigidity among some cadres. He said: "At present, in many places, education on distinguishing between two lines of thought is not widespread or deeply rooted. Some comrades say, 'The general situation of freeing our minds is that the Central Committee has taken the lead, some places have followed suit, but many places have not taken initial steps.' Therefore, continuing to propagate the line of thought based on dialectical materialism, freeing ourselves from the spiritual shackles of Lin Biao and the 'Gang of Four', and daring to ponder, bring up, and solve new problems in the new Long March, are absolutely necessary."

In mid-May, the main leaders of the Sichuan Provincial Communist Party Committee pointed out in a speech at the second plenary session of the Provincial Committee: From the perspective of the ideological state of the party, especially senior and mid-level cadres, it is relatively easy to adhere to the four fundamental principles, but to continue to free people's minds is still a big problem, especially to combine Marxism, Mao Zedong Thought, and the practicalities of the Four Modernizations, to study new situations and solve new problems, are far from enough. He said that the rigid and semi-rigid state of thought within the party still exists, and a considerable number of comrades have not resolved their lingering fears, which will take a long time and a lot of effort to resolve. Therefore, he proposed to further study, propagate, and implement the spirit of the Third Plenary Session, and to unify the adherence to the four basic principles with the liberation of thought.

The leaders of the Anhui Provincial Communist Party Committee pointed out at the Provincial Committee's work meeting held in May: We need to distinguish between the mainstream and tributaries regarding the situation. For a period of time, some people took advantage of our promotion of democracy and freedom of thought to spread doubts and denials about the four basic principles. There were also a few instances of anarchism and extreme democratization in society. This is the tributary. After conveying and implementing the leaders' speeches about the "Four Persistences", the situation quickly changed. We must not be confused by these tributaries. Currently, there is also a wave of erroneous thought that denies the Third Plenary Session. Some people seize on some tributary phenomena, exaggerate them, and then attack the party's line as being "too right", and the policies of the Third Plenary Session as being "biased". We must also pay full attention to this kind of trend that appears with a "leftist" face. This shows that many people's thoughts are still in a rigid state. Therefore, we need to understand the situation accurately, firm up our political direction, continue to deeply implement the spirit of the Third Plenary Session, continue to free thought, and lead the discussion on the criterion of truth into depth. This discussion has surpassed any theoretical problem discussion on the ideological front since the founding of New China, and it is another deeply meaningful Marxist educational movement and thought liberation movement after the Yan'an Rectification Movement.

The leaders of the Jiangxi Provincial Communist Party Committee delivered a speech at the Provincial Committee's work meeting held in May, calling on party organizations at all levels in the province to adhere to the principle of emancipating the mind, getting things moving, being realistic, looking forward in unity, and bringing the thoughts of the party and the people in line with the spirit of the Third Plenary Session. The Jiangxi Provincial Committee's work meeting believes that as long as it adheres to the resolutions of the Third Plenary Session, persists in liberating the mind, adheres to the line of thought that practice is the only standard for testing the truth, persists in getting into the heart of the matter, conducting research, and taking the mass line, the existing problems and difficulties can be completely solved.

In early June, the leaders of the Guangdong Provincial Communist Party Committee pointed out at the meeting of cadres at the prefectural, city, and county levels across the province: We must pay attention to opposing the interference of erroneous thinking from the "left" and the right. Compared to the rightist thought, the "left" thought is more likely to confuse people, poses a greater threat to us, and needs to arouse everyone's vigilance. The emergence of "leftist" and rightist thoughts is not because we have implemented the spirit of the Third Plenary Session, on the contrary, it is a manifestation of our not yet fully implementing the spirit of the Third Plenary Session. It should be said that we have only initially implemented the spirit of the Third Plenary Session, it's 'the beginning', definitely not 'overdoing it’.



Therefore, we need to continue to study the documents of the Third Plenary Session seriously. In many places, we still need to catch up on the discussion of the criterion of truth; the education of the dialectical materialist ideological line must also continue. The head of the Communist Party of Hubei Province pointed out at the expanded meeting of the provincial committee that there were differences in our party and among the cadres regarding the policies of the Third Plenary Session, and there appeared a trend of doubting or opposing the spirit of the Third Plenary Session. A few comrades believed that after the Third Plenary Session, the "policies have shifted to the right." This misunderstanding is due to a lack of comprehensive and correct understanding of the guidelines and policies of the Third Plenary Session, and the confusion of some unavoidable issues during the implementation of the spirit of the Third Plenary Session with the established policies of the Third Plenary Session. Therefore, it is necessary to continue to free up thoughts and eliminate the influence of the extreme leftist ideology left among the cadres.

The head of the General Political Department of the People's Liberation Army also put forward demands to continue to understand that practice is the sole criterion for testing truth and to further eliminate the harmful influence and effects of the extreme left lines of Lin Biao and the "Gang of Four." Subsequently, the expanded meeting of the Standing Committee of the Navy Party Committee decided to launch an in-depth study and discussion among the navy that practice is the sole criterion for testing truth, seriously solving the issue of the ideological line and discussing the problem of the criterion of the truth.

3. Expansion of the nationwide discussion on the criterion of truth- standard issue
Some of the central leaders, especially Deng Xiaoping, paid great attention to the discussion of the criterion of truth. On July 29, 1979, he pointed out in a speech when meeting with all the participants of the expanded meeting of the Standing Committee of the Navy Party Committee: "There were many people who opposed the argument that practice is the only criterion for testing truth in the beginning, but the vast majority of cadres and the people in the country have gradually accepted it. This debate is not over yet. The consideration of remedial studies by the navy now is very important. The discussion of the criterion of truth is basic construction. If the problem of the ideological line is not resolved and if thoughts are not freed, the correct political line cannot be formulated; if it is formulated, it cannot be implemented. So don't underestimate the debate that practice is the only criterion for testing the truth. The significance of this debate is too great, and its essence lies in whether to adhere to Marxism-Leninism, Mao Zedong Thought."

In mid-August of the same year, Deng Xiaoping inspected the work in Tianjin. At that time, the Tianjin Municipal Party Committee of the Communist Party of China was holding an expanded meeting of the Standing Committee. Deng listened to the work report of the city's Standing Committee, and made important remarks on the implementation of the policies of the Third Plenary Session, deepening understanding of the party's political, ideological, and organizational lines in the new period, and especially the extensive promotion of the discussion on "Practice is the sole criterion for testing truth." According to the spirit of Deng Xiaoping's speech, the person in charge of the Communist Party of China Tianjin Municipal Committee proposed that to adhere to the political line of the Third Plenary Session, we must keep our minds open and carry out a major discussion on the standard of truth. We must put in a lot of effort and engage in serious discussion from the municipal party committee to the grassroots units. Especially, leaders above districts, counties, and bureaus should study earnestly.

On September 29, 1979, Ye Jianying gave a speech at the celebration marking the 30th anniversary of the founding of New China. He proposed in his speech: "We need to carry out in-depth studies and discussions on the issue of the criterion of truth in all areas and industries, from leadership organizations to the grassroots level, and carry out education on the dialectical materialist ideological line. Especially, the main responsible cadres should take the lead in freeing their minds clearly and prominently. The responsibility of leading lies in further guiding the thinking of the masses of cadres onto the political line of realizing the four modernizations." This speech was discussed and approved by the party's Eleventh Fourth Plenary Session, so it can be seen as the layout and requirements made by the party central committee for catching-up studies on the issue of the criterion of truth.



Before and after this time, all provinces, autonomous regions, municipalities directly under the Central Government, as well as all branches of the People's Liberation Army under the unified leadership and deployment of Party committees at all levels, had successively carried out "make-up sessions" for discussions on the standard of truth. Beginning in the summer and autumn of 1979, the "make-up classes" on the issue of the standard of truth started nationwide, reaching its climax by late 1979. This round of "make-up classes" surpassed the discussions of 1978 in both breadth and depth, especially by reaching down to the grassroots level, catalyzing a strong resonance among the masses and cadre at the grassroots level, and creating a true atmosphere of large-scale discussion. In fact, this broad discussion lasted until June 1981, when the Sixth Plenary Session of the 11th Party Central Committee issued the "Resolution on Certain Historical Issues of the Party since the Founding of the People's Republic of China," basically completing the rectification of guiding principles. Only then were the "makeup classes" considered to conclude.
The "make-up sessions" for the discussions on the standard of truth represented not only a continuation of the 1978 discussions under new circumstances but also a widespread dissemination of the Marxist ideological line. It also further promoted and implemented the spirit of the Third Plenary Session of the 11th Central Committee.
III. Passage of the "Resolution on Certain Historical Issues of the Party since the Founding of the People's Republic of China"
Following the Third Plenary Session of the 11th Central Committee, the Party undertook substantial rectification of the devastation caused by Lin Biao and the "Gang of Four" during the "Cultural Revolution" across various fields. At the same time, it cleared up and corrected some "leftist" mistakes that had occurred prior to the "Cultural Revolution." On this basis, the Party thoroughly reviewed and summarized the history of the socialist revolution and the building of socialism since the founding of New China and drafted and passed the "Resolution on Certain Historical Issues of the Party since the Founding of the People's Republic of China."
1. The Objective Requirement to Summarize Historical Experiences and Lessons
Even during the Third Plenary Session of the 11th Central Committee, Deng Xiaoping proposed to summarize the history of the "Cultural Revolution." He pointed out that it was necessary to summarize the drawbacks and mistakes that occurred during the "Cultural Revolution" as lessons learned when the time is appropriate, for the unity of cognition of the whole Party. The "Cultural Revolution" has already become a stage in the history of our country's socialist development; it needs summary, but there is no need to rush it. Rigorous research is necessary to make a scientific evaluation of such a historical phase. Deng Xiaoping's opinion was accepted by the whole Party and incorporated into the plenary communiqué. 
After this plenary session, the Party Central Committee immediately began undertaking this specific work. In September 1979, on the eve of the 30th anniversary of the founding of New China, the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China organized some cadres engaged in theoretical work to conduct a relatively comprehensive research and summary of the history of the 30 years since the founding of New China, and drafted a speech draft, which was then widely solicited for opinions inside and outside the Party. From September 25th to 28th, the Fourth Plenary Session of the 11th Central Committee was held to discuss and approve this speech draft, to be delivered by Ye Jianying on the 30th anniversary of the National Day.
On September 29th, Ye Jianying, on behalf of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China, the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress, and the State Council, gave a lengthy speech at the 30th anniversary celebration of New China. He comprehensively reviewed the 30 years of history since the founding of New China and pointed out: The achievements we have made over the past 30 years have been great, and failing to see such great achievements is entirely wrong. Of course, as everyone knows, the road we have traversed has been anything but smooth. We have experienced both relatively smooth development and serious setbacks. Compared with the hard efforts made by the whole Chinese people and the superiority that the socialist system should have brought forth, our achievements are not enough. We must seriously summarize our experiences and lessons, and strive to achieve even greater success.
Ye Jianying recalled in his speech: since the founding of New China, we treated the wounds caused by the long-term war in just three years, successfully completed the remaining tasks of the democratic revolution, and restored the national economy to the highest level of old China's history while carrying out aid to North Korea against the U.S. aggression.
Subsequently, in 1956, we successfully carried out the socialist transformation of agriculture, handicrafts, and capitalist industry and commerce, completed the development of the national economy and the first Five-Year Plan, and achieved brilliant achievements in the socialist revolution and construction. However, in front of great victories, we began to be less cautious.




In 1957, the mistake of overgeneralization was made in the counterattack against the right-wing elements of the bourgeoisie. In 1958, principles of objective laws were violated in the guidance of economic work, separating from the principles of thorough investigation and empirical testing, leading to mistakes like blind commands, boastfulness, and the "communist wind". In 1959, a struggle against so-called right-leaning opportunism was inappropriately launched within the party.

When discussing the "Cultural Revolution", Ye Jianying pointed out that the starting point of initiating the "Cultural Revolution" was anti-revisionism. For a ruling proletariat party, it is of course necessary to always be vigilant and prevent the imperialist path of oppressing the people and pursuing hegemony. The problem lies in the fact that when the "Cultural Revolution" was initiated, an unrealistic assessment was made of the situation within the party and the country, and an accurate explanation of what revisionism is was not provided. Moreover, it deviated from the principles of democratic centralism and adopted erroneous policies and methods of struggle. Lin Biao, the "Gang of Four" and others, for their anti-revolutionary purposes, exploited these errors, pushed them to the extreme, caused great destruction to our country for a decade, and brought a major disaster to the Chinese people. The cause of socialism suffered the most serious setbacks since the founding of New China.

After reviewing the history of New China since its establishment, Ye Jianying summarizes several lessons as follows: 
(1) The fundamental purpose of the socialist revolution is to liberate productivity. Therefore, after the proletariat has won national power and established a socialist system, it must steadfastly focus on economic construction to develop social productivity and gradually improve people's lives.
(2) A scientific understanding conforming to objective reality of the class conditions and class struggle situation after the establishment of the socialist system must be provided and correct policies and methods must be adopted.
(3) It is especially important to correctly comprehend the interrelationship between the masses, the classes, the party, and leaders in a socialist society.
(4) It is necessary to further improve party discipline and socialist legal system, to genuinely guarantee the democratic rights of all party members and citizens, and to institutionalize and legalize the democracy within the party and the socialist democracy.

The above-mentioned statement by Ye Jianying shows that the Chinese Communist Party is an upright proletarian party that dares to admit its own mistakes. It also indicates that after experiencing a long period of setbacks and mistakes, the Chinese Communist Party has correctly summarized the lessons from its work and is thus more mature.

2. Correctly evaluate Mao Zedong and scientifically recognize Mao Zedong Thought

At that time, when the Central Committee of the Party was summarizing the history since the establishment of New China, it faced the complex problem of how to scientifically and correctly evaluate the merits and demerits of Mao Zedong's life. This is because, on the one hand, Mao Zedong was the main leader of the Chinese Communist Party and the main founder of the People's Republic of China, a leader deeply loved by the Chinese people and a contributor to the immortal merits of the Chinese Revolution and the liberation of the Chinese nation. On the other hand, Mao Zedong made serious "leftist" mistakes in his later years, leading to the disaster of the "Cultural Revolution". At the same time, how to evaluate Mao Zedong is an unavoidable issue when summarizing the history of the Party since the establishment of New China. And whether such a leader can be evaluated is a key factor in the success of the Party's rectification work.

After the third plenary session of the 11th Central Committee of the Party, with the advancement of rectification and the gradual correction of "left" errors, especially with the deepening discussion on the criterion of truth, the long-standing superstition about individuals was broken, and people no longer regarded Mao Zedong as a god or a flawless revolutionary leader. At that time, two tendencies existed on the issue of how to view Mao Zedong's merits and demerits. One tendency was that some people still failed to free themselves from the influence of personality worship and would not admit the fact that Mao Zedong had made mistakes. Another tendency was that due to resentment towards the consequences of "leftist" errors on the party, the state, their own families or themselves, some people had extreme psychology and blamed all errors on Mao Zedong personally.



Clearly, neither of these biases is conducive to a correct evaluation of Mao Zedong, nor to the work of correcting the "leftist" mistakes and scientifically summarizing historical experiences. In response to the above situations, the Party Central Committee, especially elder revolutionaries like Deng Xiaoping, called for people to liberate their minds and break through forbidden areas, while guiding them on how to pragmatically treat Mao Zedong's achievements and mistakes, and to fully and accurately understand Mao Zedong Thought.

On March 30, 1979, Deng Xiaoping, in his speech titled "Persist in the Four Cardinal Principles", addressed the erroneous trend against Mao Zedong Thought that appeared in society at that time. He pointed out that the series of victories achieved in China's revolution and construction are inseparable from Mao Zedong Thought, and Mao Zedong has made immortal contributions to the Chinese people throughout his life. As with every person, Mao Zedong also had his shortcomings and mistakes. When analyzing his shortcomings and mistakes, we must acknowledge personal responsibility, but it is more important to analyze the complex historical background. Only in this way, can we treat history and historical figures fairly, scientifically, and in a Marxist manner. 

In August 1980, when answering a question from the Italian journalist Faraci, Deng Xiaoping elaborated on the Chinese Communist Party's evaluation of Mao Zedong, and the attitude towards Mao Zedong Thought. He pointed out that Chairman Mao's accomplishments should be ranked first. He is the main founder of the Chinese Communist Party and the People's Republic of China. The things he did for the Chinese people cannot be erased. He saved the party and the people from crisis several times. Without Chairman Mao, at least our Chinese people would have to grope in the dark for a longer time. Mao Zedong Thought is the guiding thought of our party. Mao Zedong Thought is principally his own, but it is not solely his creation; it includes the participation of older revolutionaries in its establishment and development. 

Regarding the mistakes Mao Zedong made in his later years, Deng Xiaoping pointed out that some unhealthy factors and thoughts gradually emerged, mainly some "leftist" ideas. The mistakes started in the late 1950s. He did not implement the past good work style, such as democratic centralism, the mass line, and did not establish or form a good system, which finally led to the "Cultural Revolution". Mao Zedong committed political mistakes. This mistake is not small. On the other hand, the mistake was exploited by the two counter-revolutionary groups of Lin Biao and the "Gang of Four". Their goal was to conspire to seize power. Therefore, it's necessary to distinguish Mao Zedong's mistakes from the crimes of Lin Biao and the "Gang of Four". Chairman Mao's errors should be ranked second. We must speak the truth about his later mistakes, and we must continue Mao Zedong Thought.

From Deng Xiaoping's answers to the journalists, it can be seen that the correct evaluation of Mao Zedong's merits and demerits by the Chinese communists contrasts sharply with the complete denial of Stalin's merits by the then Soviet leader Khrushchev in the international communist movement. This signifies the greatness and maturity of the Chinese Communist Party.

Subsequently, from March 1980 to June 1981, during the process of drafting the "Resolution on Certain Historical Issues of the Party Since the Founding of the People's Republic", Deng Xiaoping repeatedly emphasized the need to establish Mao Zedong's historical position and to uphold and develop Mao Zedong Thought. He pointed out that evaluating Mao Zedong and explaining Mao Zedong Thought does not just concern Mao Zedong as an individual; it is inseparable from our party and our country's entire history. Regarding Mao Zedong's mistakes, they must be criticized unequivocally, but they must be handled truthfully and with analysis of different situations. We must uphold Mao Zedong Thought. Our party has educated an entire generation with Mao Zedong Thought. Now, when we talk about "rectifying chaos", we are referring to correcting the chaos caused by Lin Biao and the "Gang of Four", criticizing the mistakes of Mao Zedong's later years, and returning to the correct path of Mao Zedong Thought.

Other older comrades also set aside personal grudges, and, starting from the best interests of the party and the people, they contributed to the correct evaluation of Mao Zedong's merits and demerits and set an example.



Huang Kecheng, a devoted communist who suffered from the long-term persecution of "leftist" mistakes since 1959 and was wrongly criticized and managed by Mao Zedong at the Lushan Conference, still highly affirmed Mao Zedong's historical achievements at that time. In November 1980, he discussed the issue of how to evaluate Mao Zedong and the attitude towards Mao Zedong's thoughts at the meeting of the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection. He talked about the history and reviewed Mao Zedong's significant contributions to the Chinese revolution. At the same time, he pointed out that we should have a correct attitude towards Mao Zedong's mistakes. If all the mistakes made by our party since the founding of the People's Republic of China are counted on Mao Zedong and let him bear the responsibility alone, it does not conform to the historical facts. In the past, we old communists also made contributions to liberating the whole of China and building a new China; the credit belongs to everyone. Now if all errors are attributed to one person, as if we have no part in it, it is unfair. We should all share the responsibility that should be shared, which conforms to historical facts and materialism. Huang Kecheng said earnestly: some comrades have said many extreme words about Chairman Mao, and some people even say that he is completely wrong. I think this is wrong, not only does it fundamentally violate the facts, but it is also very disadvantageous to our party and the people. For some comrades, especially those who have been hit and persecuted, it is understandable to have some angry emotions. As you know, I also suffered in Chairman Mao's later years. But I believe that for such a significant issue, we mustn't let emotions affect judgement, we can only start from the fundamental interests of the entire party and country.

Huang Kecheng's speech was later organized into an article published in the People's Daily on April 10, 1981. His article had a significant impact on society. Many people were deeply moved after reading this article. If such a troubled old comrade can treat history impartially without resentment, what reason do others have to be emotional and vent personal resentment! It was the spirit of seeking truth from facts and the broad mind of the older generation of revolutionaries that set an example for the entire party and the people of the country to correctly evaluate Mao Zedong and correctly understand Mao Zedong's thoughts, and also made the opinions of the entire party and the people of the country on Mao Zedong gradually converge.

3. The Drafting and Adoption of the "Resolution on Certain Historical Issues of the Party since the Founding of the Country"

With the deepening of the rectification work and the gradual consensus of the understanding of Mao Zedong's merits and demerits by the entire party and the people of the country, the conditions for comprehensively summarizing the history of the party since the founding of the new China gradually mature. Consequently, the central party committee began to draft the "Resolution on Certain Historical Issues of the Party since the Founding of the Country".

Shortly after Ye Jianying delivered the 30th anniversary of the founding of the country, the CPC Central Committee began the drafting work of the "Resolution on Certain Historical Issues of the Party since the Founding of the Country" in November 1979. This work was led by the CPC Central Political Bureau, the Central Secretariat, and was presided over by Deng Xiaoping, Hu Yaobang and other leaders of the Central Committee. The specific work of the drafting team was mainly responsible by Hu Qiaomu. Deng Xiaoping attached great importance to the drafting of the resolution and repeatedly provided guiding opinions on the drafting and revision of the resolution draft.

In March 1980, the drafting group proposed a preliminary concept for the resolution. On March 19, Deng Xiaoping put forward three opinions on the drafting of the resolution: (1) To establish the historical position of Comrade Mao Zedong and adhere to and develop Mao Zedong's thoughts, which is the most core one.



(2) We should analyze which major events in the 30 years since the founding of New China are correct and which were mistakes. This includes the merits and demerits of some responsible comrades, which should be fairly assessed. (3) This resolution should be a basic summary of the past. The summary should be broad rather than detailed, and its purpose is to guide everyone to look forward and unite. On April 1 of the same year, he gave his opinion on the overall design of the draft resolution and shared his view on the 17-year history after the founding of New China and before the "Cultural Revolution".

On June 27, after reading the draft resolution, Deng Xiaoping pointed out that the focus should be on what Mao Zedong Thought is, what are the correct things about Comrade Mao Zedong, and what mistakes should be criticized. However, it has to be very appropriate. Criticizing only the mistakes of Comrade Mao Zedong himself cannot solve the problem. The most important issue is a systemic one. Deng Xiaoping's talk demonstrated his profound insight and superb ability to perceive problems and observe things as a great Marxist. 

In October 1980, the draft resolution was discussed among 4,000 senior officials for 20 days. During the discussion, everyone spoke freely, and there were many good ideas. However, some people still proposed extreme ideas during the discussion. Some people suggested not to write about Mao Zedong Thought at all; Mao Zedong in the early stage was a Marxist and a Communist, but Mao Zedong in the later stage was neither a Marxist nor a Communist. Some people even thought that all the mistakes made before and during the "Cultural Revolution" should be borne by Mao Zedong alone.

According to this situation, Deng Xiaoping proposed during a conversation with the leaders of the Central Committee on October 25, 1980: If Mao Zedong's contributions and mistakes are not properly evaluated, the old workers and the poor peasants who turned over during land reform will not pass it, and a large number of cadres in contact with them will not pass it either. We cannot abandon the banner of Mao Zedong Thought. If we abandon this banner, we are actually denying the glorious history of our Party. The part that elaborates Mao Zedong thought in the draft resolution cannot be omitted. This is not just a theoretical problem, but especially a political problem, a big political problem at home and abroad. If we do not write or write this part well, it is better not to make the whole resolution at all. If we do not write or adhere to Mao Zedong thought, we will make a historic mistake. As for the mistakes of Comrade Mao Zedong, they must be criticized without ambiguity. But they must seek truth from facts, analyze various different situations, and must not attribute all problems to personal qualities. Comrade Mao Zedong was not an isolated person. Until he died, he was always the leader of our Party. We must not go too far in writing about the mistakes of Comrade Mao Zedong. If we go too far, we will smear Comrade Mao Zedong, and we will also smear our Party and our country. This is a violation of historical facts.

In March 1981, Deng Xiaoping pointed out that the outline of the draft resolution can be determined: the achievements of the first seven years after the founding of New China are widely recognized. The ten years before the "Cultural Revolution" should be affirmed, generally good, and basically developing on a healthy path. There were twists and turns in between and mistakes were made, but achievements are the main part. The part about the "Cultural Revolution" should be written in summary. Compared with the errors in the previous 17 years, the "Cultural Revolution" was a serious and overall error. Its consequences were extremely serious and are still having an impact today. On April 7, he talked to the person in charge of the drafting group about his views on some problems during the "Cultural Revolution": (1) We should recognize the legitimacy of the 12th Plenary Session of the 8th Central Committee and the "9th Congress".



During the "Cultural Revolution", we still had a party existing. (2) During the "Cultural Revolution", great achievements have been made in foreign affairs work. Simultaneously, Chen Yun also made important suggestions for the amendment of the resolution. On March 24, Chen Yun made two suggestions on the draft resolution: one was to specifically add a paragraph to discuss the history of the party before the founding of the country, writing about the 60 years of the party, so that Mao Zedong's achievements and contributions would be more comprehensive, establishing Mao Zedong's historical position, upholding and developing Mao Zedong Thought, would also have a comprehensive basis; the second one was to suggest that the central government promote learning, the focus is on studying Mao Zedong's philosophical works. Deng Xiaoping took these opinions seriously and conveyed these two opinions to the draft resolution group two days later. Around this time, Chen Yun also made the following suggestions on the resolution: (1) The errors of the party's work in the 32 years since the founding of New China must be written accurately, judgements must be in line with reality. It needs to be "nailed down"; (2) to suggest adding a paragraph reviewing the 28-year history before the establishment of New China; (3) to fully affirm Mao Zedong's historical achievements; (4) to write about the help from the international community.

In May 1981, the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee invited more than 40 people to discuss the draft resolution for 12 days. Based on the discussion, the drafting group made repeated amendments. 

On May 19, Deng Xiaoping pointed out at the expanded meeting of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee that the resolution of history should be presented as soon as possible and that late presentation would be unprofitable. In order to present it earlier, the current method is to hold an expanded meeting of the Political Bureau. Seventy-some people would spend some time and energy to scrutinise the draft more meticulously and make better changes, then finalise it, and then propose it to the 6th Plenary Session of the 6th Central Committee, expected to be published on the 60th anniversary of the party.

Afterwards, the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee discussed the draft resolution for 12 days, inviting more than 70 people based on Deng Xiaoping's opinion. After the modification, the viewpoints and opinions of 130 representatives of various democratic parties were sought again, which led to further amendment and perfection to the content of the resolution. In June 1981, the preparatory meeting of the 6th Plenary Session of the 11th CPPCC National Committee conscientiously and meticulously discussed the draft resolution again. Deng Xiaoping also made several important remarks on the draft resolution at the meeting.

So, after more than a year, the draft resolution went through a process of drafting, discussion, and repeated revision. During this process, there were four or five extensive discussions. Through brainstorming, collective modification, and concentrating the wisdom of the whole party, we eventually reached a consensus with the majority of comrades and achieved the purpose of drafting the resolution.

On this basis, the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China held the 6th Plenary Session of the 11th Central Committee from June 27 to 29, 1981. The plenary session deliberated the "Resolution on Certain Historical Issues of the Party since the Founding of the People's Republic of China" (shortly referred to as the "Resolution"). After ample discussions, the plenary session unanimously passed the "Resolution". The "Resolution" used Marxist dialectical materialism and historical materialism to correctly summarise the significant historical events of the party in the 32 years since the founding of New China, especially the "Cultural Revolution".



The most important contribution of this historical document is:

Firstly, it provides an objective scientific assessment of Mao Zedong's historical status, fully discussing the great significance of Mao Zedong Thought as the guiding thought of the Party. The "Resolution" states: Mao Zedong is a great Marxist, a great proletarian revolutionary, strategist, and theorist. Looking at his life as a whole, his contributions to the Chinese revolution far outweigh his mistakes. Mao Zedong has made indelible merits for the founding and development of our Party and the People's Liberation Army of China, the victory of the liberation cause of all ethnic groups in China, the founding of the People's Republic of China, and the development of our socialist cause.

The "Resolution" fully elaborates on Mao Zedong Thought, pointing out: Mao Zedong Thought is the application and development of Marxism-Leninism in China. It is the proven correct theoretical principles and summarized experiences about the Chinese revolution. It is the crystallization of the collective wisdom of the Chinese Communist Party. Many of our outstanding Party leaders have made significant contributions to its formation and development. Mao Zedong's scientific works are its concentrated summary. The scientific system of Mao Zedong Thought mainly includes the following parts: the construction of revolutionary armies and military strategy; policies and strategies; ideological, political, and cultural work; and party building. Among the above components, the three basic aspects of "seeking truth from facts," "the mass line," and "independence" run through, which is the living soul of Mao Zedong Thought.

The "Resolution" distinguishes the mistakes Mao Zedong made in his later years from Mao Zedong Thought, pointing out: the attitude of attempting to deny the scientific value of Mao Zedong Thought because Mao Zedong made mistakes in his later years is completely wrong. At the same time, it is completely wrong to take a dogmatic attitude towards Mao Zedong's remarks and not willing to admit the mistakes made by Mao Zedong in his later years, and attempt to persist in these mistakes in new practices. Mao Zedong Thought, which has become a scientific theory through long historical tests, must be distinguished from the mistakes Mao Zedong made in his later years. Mao Zedong Thought is a precious spiritual wealth of our Party and it will guide our actions for a long time.

The discourse in the "Resolution" about Mao Zedong Thought not only scientifically summarizes and defines this first theoretical achievement formed by the Party in the path of sinicization of Marxism but also paves the way for inheriting and developing this theory and continuing to advance the sinicization of Marxism.

Secondly, it makes a scientific summary of the history of the Party, especially the history of the 32 years after the founding of New China. Regarding the seven years of basically completing socialist transformation (1949-1956), the "Resolution" believes that the guiding principles and basic policies determined by the Party during this period are correct, and the victories achieved are brilliant. The establishment of the socialist system is the deepest and greatest social change in China's history, which has become the basis for all progress and development in China in the future. Regarding the ten years of the beginning of the full construction of socialism (1957-1966), the "Resolution" believes that we have achieved great achievements, but also suffered serious setbacks. All the achievements of these ten years were achieved under the collective leadership of the Party Central Committee led by Mao Zedong. Later, due to complex reasons such as lack of experience, there were subjective deviations in the analysis of the situation and understanding of national conditions, mistakes such as the intensification of class struggle and the impetuous rush of economic construction were made, including the "Cultural Revolution" which brought serious setbacks and losses to the socialist cause.

The "Resolution" made a complete denial of the "Cultural Revolution" (from May 1966 to October 1976). The "Resolution" points out that the "Cultural Revolution" has caused the most serious setbacks and losses to the Party, the state, and the people since the founding of New China. The main arguments made by Mao Zedong in launching the "Cultural Revolution" are neither consistent with Marxism-Leninism nor with China's reality.



The arguments summarized as "the theory of continuing the revolution under the dictatorship of the proletariat" were completely incorrect in their estimation of the class situation and the political conditions of the party and state in our country at the time. History has proven that the "Cultural Revolution" was a civil disorder wrongly initiated by the leadership, exploited by the Lin Biao and Jiang Qing group, causing serious disaster to the Party, the country, and the people.

The "Resolution" evaluates the two years of groping progress after the smashing of the "Gang of Four" as follows: The victory of smashing the Jiang Qing counter-revolutionary group in October 1976 ushered our country into a new historical development period. However, in the first two years, the strong demands from comrades inside and outside the party to correct the errors of the "Cultural Revolution" encountered serious obstacles. This was not only due to the political and ideological chaos caused by ten years of the "Cultural Revolution" which was not easy to eliminate in a short period of time, but also because Hua Guofeng, who was then serving as Chairman of the Central Committee of the Party, continued to make "leftist" mistakes in his guiding ideology. The Third Plenary Session of the 11th Central Committee held in December 1978 was a significant turning point in the history of our party since the founding of New China. The Plenary ended the situation of groping progress in the work of the Party since October 1976, began to comprehensively and seriously correct the "leftist" errors during and before the "Cultural Revolution", achieved a series of victories in rectifying the chaos, leading to a good situation in the economy and politics of our country.

Third, for the first time, the "Resolution" pointed out that our socialist system is still in an initial stage, and it clearly states that our socialist system must go through a long process to move from being relatively imperfect to relatively perfect. This understanding goes one step further than the past. On the basis of correctly summarizing historical experience, a preliminary summary of the socialist construction path suitable for China's national conditions gradually established by the Party after the Third Plenary Session of the 11th Central Committee is as follows: (1) After the basic completion of socialist transformation, the main contradiction that our country needs to resolve is between the people's ever-growing material and cultural needs and the backward social productivity. The focus of the party and state must shift to socialist modernization with economic construction at the centre; (2) Socialist economic construction must start from the realities of our country, acting within our means and progressively achieving modernization goals in stages; (3) Changes in production relations and improvements must adapt to the status of productive forces. There is no fixed pattern for the development of socialist production relations. According to the requirements of our country's productive forces development, at each stage it is necessary to create specific forms of production relations that are compatible and conducive to continued progress; (4) After the exploiting class is eliminated as a class, class struggle is no longer the main contradiction. It is necessary to oppose both views that expand class struggle and views that believe class struggle has already ended; (5) The gradual construction of a highly democratic socialist political system is one of the fundamental tasks of socialist revolution; (6) Socialism must have a high level of spiritual civilization, striving to improve the status and role of education, science and culture in modernization construction; (7) Improving and developing socialist ethnic relations is of great significance to our multi-ethnic country; (8) It is necessary to strengthen modern defense construction, and defense construction must be compatible with the country's economic construction; (9) In foreign relations, it is necessary to insist on opposing imperialism, hegemonism, colonialism and racism, and safeguarding world peace; (10) The Chinese Communist Party must be built into a party with a sound democratic centralism. Although the individual expressions of these main points may have changed in later documents, their basic spirit and main content reflect the initial understanding of the Party's re-exploration of the socialist construction path under new historical conditions.

The adoption of the "Resolution on Certain Historical Issues of the Party since the Founding of the Nation" is of great importance for party building and state political construction. It further unified the thoughts and understandings of the entire party and the people of the whole country, strengthened the unity of the entire party and people of all ethnic groups, and marked the successful completion of the task of rectifying chaos in the guiding ideology of the Party. After the resolution was announced, it immediately resonated strongly within the whole Party and among the people of the whole country, receiving widespread and enthusiastic support.



At the same time, the passage and announcement of this resolution also had a profound influence abroad and internationally.

Chapter Four: The Proposition of "Building Socialism with Chinese Characteristics" and the Formulation of the Comprehensive Reform Programme

I. The Proposition of "Socialism with Chinese Characteristics"

From September 1 to 11 in 1982, the Communist Party of China (CPC) solemnly held its Twelfth National Congress in Beijing. This was the most important national congress in the history of the party since the Eighth National Congress.

In December 1978, the third plenary session of the Eleventh CPC Central Committee adopted a series of major decisions concerning the destiny of the Party and the country, criticized the erroneous principles of "two whatever’s", fully affirmed the importance of comprehensively and accurately understanding the scientific system of Mao Zedong Thought, and determined the guiding principles of emancipating the mind, seeking truth from facts, and uniting and looking forward. These decisions decisively put an end to the slogan of "taking class struggle as the key link", and made a strategic decision to shift the focus of the Party's work to the modernization of socialism.

1. Preparation for the 12th National Congress of the Party

The changes realized by the Third Plenary Session of the Eleventh Central Committee marked a fundamental break with the Party's long-standing "left" errors, rectified the Party's guiding ideology, re-established Marxist ideological, political and organizational lines, ended the stagnation of the Party's work since October 1976, and laid the foundation for exploring the road to construction and the basic line of the party that is suited to China's national conditions. This heralded a new era for the modernization of socialism in China.

After the Third Plenary Session of the Eleventh Central Committee, the party carried out large-scale rectification work, and step by step resolved many problems left over from the founding of New China and new problems emerging in practical life. Around the theme of shifting the focus of the work of the whole Party and the whole nation to economic construction, efforts were concentrated to develop the productive forces and to carry out the construction of modern socialism in our country. How to further depict the blueprint of our country's reform and opening up and modernization, and explore the road to the construction of socialism with Chinese characteristics, had become a new issue before the whole Party. The Twelfth Party Congress was held against this backdrop.

To successfully convene this party congress, the party central committee undertook more than two years of preparation work. As early as February 1980, the Fifth Plenary Session of the Eleventh Central Committee of the CPC formally decided to convene the Twelfth Congress of the CPC ahead of schedule, and the plenary session also stipulated the main agenda, the distribution principle and method of representative quotas for the Twelfth Congress.

The plenary session held the view that since the Eleventh Party Congress, and particularly since the Third Plenary Session of the Eleventh Central Committee, significant changes and developments have taken place in both domestic and international situations. With the shift in the focus of the Party's work, the cause of the construction of modern socialism began to get on track of healthy development. The political, ideological and organizational lines of the party determined by the Third and Fourth plenary sessions have been widely accepted by the people. Lin Biao and the "Gang of Four’s" extreme left line and their residual influence in the organization and thought have been further exposed and criticized. A large number of wrongful cases left from history have been redressed, and the party's policies have been widely implemented across the country. On this basis, the whole party, the whole military, and the people across the country were united firmly around the central committee of the party, arduously struggling for the great cause of the modernization of socialism and the implementation of the policy of adjusting, reforming, rectifying and improving the national economy. There were continued success reports on all fronts such as agriculture, industry, finance and trade, education, science, culture, politics, defense, and diplomacy; and an atmosphere of stability, unity and vitality is growing. These facts prove that the lines, guidelines and policies implemented by the Central Committee of the Party are correct. Our country has basically changed from a state of serious chaos caused by Lin Biao and the "Gang of Four" to a good situation where there is leadership, order, direction and objective, and conditions and confidence for victory. This is a great victory won by our party after overcoming great difficulties.

This plenary session pointed out: the great practice of the people of all ethnic groups marching toward four modernizations has now posed a series of major issues to our Party that need to be solved promptly, including the formulation of a long-term plan for the development of the national economy, the determination of an economic system suitable for the needs of national economic development, the formulation of education plans and education system suitable for the needs of national economic development, etc.




With the transformation of the domestic situation, a series of important issues in the national political life and party life, and some important issues in ideological and theoretical terms, also need to be resolved accordingly, for the sake of stable and lively political situation's development and strengthening, and for the smooth progress of modernization construction. In order to solve these urgent problems, it is necessary for the Central Committee to convene the 12th National Congress of the Party in advance. The Plenary Session of the Central Committee unanimously passed a resolution to convene the 12th National Congress of the Communist Party of China ahead of schedule. The specific time of the congress was decided by the Politburo.

This plenary session has preliminarily decided on the main agenda of the 12th Congress. It stipulates that the quota for delegates to the 12th Congress is 1600, and each election unit elects alternate delegates at a ratio of one tenth of the number of representatives. By each province, autonomous region, municipality directly under the Central Government, central directly affiliated organs, central state organs, headquarters of the People's Liberation Army, military branches, major military regions, they respectively convened party congresses or representative meetings, after full deliberation, they were elected by secret ballot in a method of competitive election.

After the fifth plenary session of the 11th Central Committee of the Party was convened, the Central Committee of the Party immediately began preparations for the 12th Congress.

Regarding the election of the delegates to the 12th Congress, in order to do this work well, the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee passed "Several Opinions on the Work of Electing Delegates to the 12th Congress" in April 1980. The document, in accordance with the spirit of the resolution of the Fifth Plenary Session of the Central Committee, put forward specific opinions on several issues related to representative elections, and required that all local party congresses or representative meetings must uphold the principle of democratic centralism throughout. The delegates to the 12th Congress must be fully deliberated and elected by secret ballot through competitive elections. Each provincial, municipal, and autonomous regional party committee should strengthen its leadership and hold county and city party congresses or representative meetings well.

In this document, the Political Bureau also made principled provisions on the proportion of representatives from all aspects: female party member representatives accounted for about 15% of the total number of representatives; nationally renowned labor models and combat heroes accounted for about 6%; professionals in science and technology, culture, education, health, sports, etc. accounted for about 15%; and representatives of ethnic minorities were not less than 5%. At the same time, it was required that representatives should strive for rejuvenation, and the goal was that no less than two-fifths of the representatives should be under 55 years old.

The meeting of the Political Bureau also made a decision on "Elderly Comrades who Lost their Ability to Work Not Being Delegates to the 12th Congress and Candidates for Central Committee". It pointed out: In order to have a considerable proportion of young and strong comrades among the representatives attending the congress and the central committee members elected by the congress, to enable the party's leading bodies to adapt to the needs of the heavy tasks of socialist modernization, to ensure the long-term continuity of the party's line, principles, and policies, and to ensure the centralized leadership of the party and long-term stability, according to the suggestions of many old comrades and the masses inside and outside the party, according to the spirit of the Fifth Plenary Session and the principles of the new party constitution (draft), the center decided that the elderly comrades who are old, lose their ability to work and take care of their lives, should not be the representatives of the 12th Congress of the Party and candidates for the Central Committee. It is not hard to see that this is an important step to abolish the de facto life tenure of cadres and gradually renew the leadership team.

From May 18 to 19, 1980, Hu Yaobang made a speech at the seminar on the selection of excellent middle-aged and young cadres convened by the Central Organization Department, pointing out that efforts should be made to make the 12th Congress of our party one of the best congresses since the founding of New China. He said: To hold the best representative congress, there are generally three standards: (1) Its established line is correct; (2) The leadership team it elects has prestige, and it is satisfied and supported by the vast majority of party comrades; (3) Its method embodies the principle of democratic centralism, and it fully follows the mass line.



When discussing how elected representatives can truly be representative, Hu Yaobang required organizational departments to seriously study and carefully examine under the leadership of party committees at all levels. Those who met the conditions to be representatives should assume the role, and those who did not meet the conditions should not be forced to. 
There needs to be ample brewing, and the agreement of a wide range of party members should be genuinely sought. It should not be determined by a minority, there is nothing secretive about the list, it can be brought up among party members for discussion. Change should not be feared, it is also a dialectic, through the convening of the party congress, to carry out an exercise of party democracy, improve the Party's life, and provide a vibrant education on strengthening Party leadership.
Based on the resolution of the Fifth Plenary Session of the 11th Party Congress and the spirit of the central instructions, party organizations in all provinces, autonomous regions, municipalities directly under the central government, central agencies and the People's Liberation Army have successively held party congresses or representative meetings, electing representatives to attend the 12th Congress, and the election work has been completed on schedule.
Another preparatory work for the Twelfth Congress, i.e., the amendment of the party constitution, is also being carried out in a hurry.
Starting from the winter of 1979, under the leadership of the Standing Committee of Central Political Bureau, a group of cadres have been convened by relevant central units to hold several talks, and to survey many places around the country and solicit opinions, drafting a draft.
In January 1980, Deng Xiaoping made many important guidelines on the amendment of the Party Constitution. Under the central leadership, a special constitution amendment group was established, chaired by Deng Xiaoping and Hu Yaobang, and specifically responsible by Hu Qiaomu. The original draft was discussed and revised repeatedly, forming the first draft of the revision proposal. It was submitted for discussion at the Fifth Plenum of the Eleventh Central Committee in February 1980, and the first revision was made according to the discussion opinions of the plenary session. In April, it was sent to all parties for discussion by the Central Secretariat, and solicited opinions from some people outside the party. In May 1980, a second more significant revision was made. In June of the same year, it was sent to party organizations and all representatives of the twelfth congress in all provinces, autonomous regions, municipalities directly under the central government, large military regions, and central party, government, and military departments to solicit opinions. A third revision was made in July.
On the basis of all the above preparations, the Central Political Bureau convened an expanded meeting in Beijing in late July 1982. More than 130 leaders from central and provincial, autonomous regions, municipalities directly under the central government attended the meeting. The meeting discussed some major issues related to the Twelfth Congress.
On August 6, 1982, the Party Central Committee convened the Seventh Plenary Session of the Eleventh Session. The meeting was attended by 185 central committee members, 112 alternate central committee members, 21 observers, and the meeting was chaired by Hu Yaobang, Ye Jianying, Deng Xiaoping, Zhao Ziyang, Li Xiannian, Chen Yun, and Hua Guofeng.
The plenary session decided to convene the Twelfth National Congress of the Communist Party of China on September 1, and publicly announced to the whole party and the people of the whole country, revived the good tradition of laying open its congress to the whole nation as the Eighth National Congress of the Communist Party of China, and abandoned the secret practises carried out by the Ninth National Congress. The Plenary Session reviewed and approved the Report of the Central Committee on the Twelfth National Congress of the Party and the "Constitution of the Communist Party of China (Amendment Draft)", and decided to submit these two documents to the Twelfth National Congress of the Party for review.
On August 30, the preparatory meeting for the Twelfth Congress was held in Beijing.



The conference established four agenda items for the congress, elected the 12th Presidium consisting of 252 people, and elected Zhao Ziyang as the Secretary-General of the conference. Hu Yaobang proposed at the conference that the task of the Twelfth Congress was: to make a victorious summary of the great historical turn achieved since the smashing of the "Gang of Four" six years ago, especially since the Third Plenary Session of the Eleventh CPC Central Committee, and to identify the grand objectives and combat missions of the Party in the new era, enabling our Party to lead the people of all ethnic groups across the country in striving to create a new situation for socialist modernization with a refreshed image and strong combat power. The conference adopted the decision on approving the supplemented members of the Central Committee at the Third and Fourth Plenary Sessions of the Eleventh CPC Central Committee, and the Presidium selected a Standing Committee consisting of 31 people including Hu Yaobang, Ye Jianying, Deng Xiaoping, Zhao Ziyang, Li Xiannian, Chen Yun, Hua Guofeng, Xu Xiangqian, Nie Rongzhen, Peng Zhen, and Deng Yingchao. The inspection report of the representative qualification examination committee represented by Song Renqiong was adopted and the congress schedule was approved. With this, all preparations for the Twelfth CPC National Congress were successfully completed.

2. The Twelfth National Congress of the Communist Party of China was held
From September 1 to 11, 1982, the Twelfth National Congress of the Communist Party of China solemnly took place in Beijing. A total of 1545 official delegates and 145 alternate delegates attended the congress, representing more than 39 million members of the party. The congress had three major agenda items: 
(1) to review and approve the report of the Central Committee and to set the program for opening up a new situation in socialist modernization; 
(2) to review and approve the new Constitution of the Communist Party of China; 
(3) to elect in accordance with the new party constitution, a new Central Committee, a new Central Advisory Commission, and a new Central Discipline Inspection Committee.

The congress was conducted by the Presidium and the Standing Committee of the Presidium. The opening ceremony of the congress invited representatives of various democratic parties and non-party democrats. The executive chairman of congress, Deng Xiaoping, made his opening speech. 

In this opening speech, Deng Xiaoping reviewed the history of the Party since the seventh congress and explained the significant historical position of the Indian congress. He said: "In 1945, the Communist Party of China's 7th National Congress was convened under the leadership of comrade Mao Zedong, and it marked the most important congress of our Party since its foundation during the democratic revolution. It summarized the twisty history of China's democratic revolution for over 20 years, adopted the correct programme and strategy, overcame the incorrect ideologies within the Party, and united the whole Party's understanding on the basis of Marxism-Leninism and Mao Zedong Thought, achieving unprecedented unity in the party, which laid the foundation for the victory of the new democratic revolution across the country." "Since the Third Plenary Session of the 11th Central Committee, we have restored correct policies in economics, politics, culture and other aspects, studied new situations and experiences, and set a series of new correct policies. Compared with the eight congress, our Party now has a much deeper understanding on the law of socialist construction in our country, a lot more experiences, and a much stronger willingness and determination to implement our correct policies. We have a solid reason to believe that the correct program set by this congress will be able to fully open up a new situation for socialist modernization, making our Party prosperous and strong, our socialist cause prosperous and strong, and our nation and country prosperous and strong."

In the speech, Deng Xiaoping also summed up historic experiences of the Party, and introduced the guiding doctrine of following the path of socialism with Chinese characteristics. He said, “Our modernization construction must be based on the actual conditions in China. Whether during revolution or construction, it is important to learn and draw from foreign experiences. However, success will never come by mechanically copying or imitating others’ experience or model. We have learned much from our past. To integrate the universal truth of Marxism with China's specific conditions, to tread our own path, to build socialism with Chinese characteristics, is the fundamental conclusion we have drawn from long-term historical experience.” This fundamental conclusion is the CPC's correct understanding and application of the objective law of socialist construction in our country, and also a concentrated reflection of the will, wish, and demand of people of all ethnic groups in our country. Our country's reform, opening-up and modernization construction have achieved great success under this ideological guide.



In his opening remarks, Deng Xiaoping evaluated the situation and far-sightedly proposed the three major tasks faced by our nation's people in the 1980s, namely: accelerating the construction of socialist modernization, striving for the realization of reunification involving Taiwan, opposing hegemony, and maintaining world peace. Among these three tasks, the core is economic construction, which is the foundation to solve international and domestic issues. He emphasized that for a long period to come, at least until the end of the 20th century, we need to focus on four tasks: implement organizational reforms and economic system reforms, achieve the revolutionization, rejuvenation, intellectualization, and specialization of the cadres; build socialist spiritual civilization; crack down on criminal activities that undermine socialism in the economic and other fields; regulate the party's style and organization based on seriously studying the new party chapter. 

At the 12th Party Congress, Hu Yaobang, on behalf of the 11th Central Committee, made a political report titled "Comprehensively Create a New Situation for Socialist Modernization Construction". The report is divided into six parts: (1) historical changes and new grand tasks; (2) promote the overall boom of the socialist economy; (3) strive to build high-level socialist spiritual civilization; (4) strive to build high-level socialist democracy; (5) adhere to an independent foreign policy; (6) build the party into a strong core that leads socialist modernization.

In the report, he reviewed the party's journey and the huge achievements made on all fronts since the Third Plenary Session of the Eleventh Central Committee, and proposed the party's overall task in the new historical period: uniting all ethnic groups in the country for self-reliance, hard work, gradual realization of modernization in industry, agriculture, national defense, and science and technology, and building our country into a highly civilized and democratic socialist country. From this congress to the next, within five years, we must vigorously promote the construction of socialist material and spiritual civilization according to the requirements of the overall task, continue to improve socialist democracy and law, seriously regulate the party's style and organization, strive to fundamentally improve the national financial and economic situation. Also, we should work together with all patriotic people including Taiwanese, Hong Kong, Macau compatriots, and overseas Chinese, and strive to promote the reunification of the motherland. Furthermore, we must continue to fight against imperialism, hegemony, and maintain world peace with all people in the world. 

Based on the actual situation in China, the report focused on the overall tasks, devising strategic goals, key points, and a series of policy guidelines for economic construction. The report pointed out that among the tasks of opening up a new situation, the most important task is to push forward the economic construction of socialist modernization. From 1981 to the end of the 20th century, the overall goal of China's economic construction is to strive to double the annual total output value while continuously improving economic benefits, increasing from 710 billion in 1980 to about 2.8 trillion in 2000. Important tactical points like addressing agriculture, energy, transportation, education, and science can stimulate a rapid increase in production, drive the development of industries, and ensure the improvement of people's lives. 

To achieve the 20-year goal, it should be divided into two stages in strategic deployment: laying a strong foundation for the first ten years, and entering a new period of economic revival in the next ten years. This is an important decision made by the Central Committee of the Party after a comprehensive analysis of China's economic situation and development trends. During the sixth five-year plan from 1981 to 1985, we need to continue to firmly implement the guidelines of adjustment, reform, rectification, and improvement, practice austerity, oppose waste, and shift all economic work to the track centered on economic benefits.



We must focus our efforts on adjusting the economic structure in various aspects, consolidating and improving the preliminary reforms that have been implemented in the economic management system, and urgently formulate an overall plan and implementation steps for reform. During the seventh five-year plan period from 1986 to 1990, we should widely carry out enterprise technology reform, and gradually carry out the reform of economic management system. At the same time, we should complete the rationalization of the enterprise organizational structure and various aspects of the economic structure. In the 1980s, we still need to carry out a series of necessary basic construction in energy, transportation and other areas and "tackle" series of major scientific and technological projects. As long as we do the above work well, we can solve the problems left over from history well, and lay a solid foundation for economic growth in the next decade. By the 1990s, China's economic growth rate will definitely be much faster than the 1980s, and China's economy will fully enter a period of high growth.

The report highly praised the significance and role of building socialist spiritual civilization, and proposed that we must strive to build socialist spiritual civilization. The report points out that we must strive to build a high-level socialist spiritual civilization while building a highly material civilization. This is a strategic policy issue in building socialism. The historical experience of socialism and the current reality of our country tell us whether to adhere to such a policy, relates to the rise and fall of socialism and its success or failure. The relationship between physical civilization and spiritual civilization in socialist construction is very close, the construction of material civilization is the indispensable foundation for the construction of socialist spiritual civilization, and socialist spiritual civilization not only greatly promotes the construction of material civilization but also ensures its correct development direction. The construction of the two civilizations, each being a condition and a goal of the other. The report pointed out that building a socialist spiritual civilization is not an easy task, especially today. We must make the greatest efforts to adapt to the new conditions and circumstances of the construction period, do a good job in building a socialist spiritual civilization and inspire the great enthusiasm of the masses to build socialism with revolutionary thoughts and spirits.

The report also pointed out that building a high level of socialist democracy is one of our fundamental goals and tasks. The report emphasizes that we must continue to reform and improve the country's political system and leadership system in accordance with the principle of democratic centralism, expand socialist democracy to all aspects of political, economic, cultural and social life. Develop democratic management in various enterprises and institutions, develop grassroots social mass self-government, and closely combine the construction of socialist democracy with the construction of a socialist legal system to legalize and institutionalize the socialist democracy.

Regarding China's foreign policy, the report pointed out that combination of patriotism and internationalism has always been the fundamental starting point for dealing with foreign relations. We insist on implementing independent foreign policy. China's foreign policy is based on the scientific theory of Marxism-Leninism, Mao Zedong Thought, and is from the fundamental interests of Chinese people and people all over the world. It has a long-term strategic basis and never yields to any temporary incidents, is not subject to anyone's instigation, and we will never seek hegemony under any circumstances. At the same time, the report also pointed out that our party insists on the basis of Marxism, develops relations with communist parties and other working-class parties of various countries in accordance with the principles of independence, equality, mutual respect, and non-interference, all parties should respect each other and help one another. China should make a great contribution to the world.

The report emphasized the importance of building the party into a strong core leading socialist modernization. In order to strengthen the building of the party in the new era, the Twelfth National Congress of the Communist Party of China made many fundamentally significant amendments to the eleventh party constitution. The general principle of amending party constitution is to adapt to the characteristics and needs of the new era, put forward stricter requirements for party members, enhance the combat effectiveness of party organizations, and maintain and improve the leadership of the party. The new constitution eliminated the "left" errors in the eleventh party constitution and inherited and expanded the advantages of the party constitutions of the Seventh and Eighth National Congresses of the Communist Party of China.



The report states that in order to build the party as the core force leading the cause of socialist modernization, at present, it is necessary to improve the party's system of democratic centralism, improve the system of leadership institutions and cadre, realize the revolutionization, youthfulness, intellectualization, and professionalism of the cadre team, and at the same time strengthen the party's work among workers, peasants, and intellectuals. Close the connection between the party and the masses, and carry out party rectification in a planned and stepped manner over a period of three years, so that the style of the party can be fundamentally improved.

Hu Yaobang's report revolves around the goal of building socialism with Chinese characteristics and outlines a blueprint for achieving this ambitious goal from various aspects such as politics, economy, culture, diplomacy, and party building. It solves a series of major problems in China's socialist revolution and construction from the combination of theory and practice and has caused strong responses from all sides. From September 2nd to 4th, the delegates attending the 12th congress spent three days for a heated discussion on the report. Everyone spoke freely, felt comfortable, and the meeting atmosphere was very active.

On the afternoon of September 5th, the Presidium of the Congress held a meeting. Vice Secretary-General Hu Qiaomu explained the amendments to the 11th Central Committee's report and the draft of the Constitution of the Communist Party of China based on the suggestions and opinions put forward by the representatives in group discussions. The meeting passed the draft resolutions on the report of the 11th Central Committee and the Constitution of the Chinese Communist Party and decided to submit these two draft resolutions to the Congress for approval. The meeting also decided to submit the candidate list for the Central Committee, the Central Advisory Committee, and the Central Discipline Inspection Committee proposed by the Presidium to the full congress for discussion, and passed the election methods for the three committees and submitted them to the Congress for review.

On the afternoon of September 6, a plenary meeting was held. The Congress adopted the resolution on the report of the 12th Central Committee and approved the report made by Hu Yaobang on behalf of the 11th Central Committee. The resolution of the congress stated: "The lines, principles, and policies since the third plenary session of the 11th Central Committee are correct and the work is effective." "The correct program and a series of guiding principles and policies that are proposed in the report to comprehensively open up a new situation of socialist modernization construction should become the basic basis for all future work of the party." The congress also passed the Constitution of the Chinese Communist Party proposed by the 11th Central Committee and the resolution about this constitution. The resolution calls for the entire Party to carefully organize the study of the Party Charter, strive to make all party members truly understand the preamble and various provisions of the party charter, and enable the understanding of all party members, especially all leading cadres, to be improved, so as to be fully prepared for the thorough improvement of the party's style and the party's organization and make the party a strong core leading the socialist modernization.

On the 6th, Ye Jianying and Chen Yun gave speeches, expressing their approval of Deng Xiaoping's opening speech and Hu Yaobang's political report and the Charter of the Chinese Communist Party, and focused on the issue of new and old cadre cooperation and rotation. Ye Jianying said: "Our Party is a vibrant party. Through this congress, a group of vigorous comrades will come to the central leadership and other leadership positions, which is an important sign of the prosperity of the party's cause. Our older comrades feel very pleased to see this happening." At the same time, he quoted the Tang Dynasty poet Li Shangyin's verse "The juvenile phoenix is clearer than the old phoenix" to praise the young comrades, and sincerely "hope that the young comrades who are new to work, cooperate closely with the old comrades, take up the heavy burden, and bravely move forward," and later come up and surpass the old comrades; hope that the old comrades who retire have not retired in thought and should write their own history in their later years with actual actions, always thinking about the interests of the party and the people, and continue to do what they can.

Chen Yun analyzed the condition of the party's caucus team and explained the significance and policy of the cooperation and alternation of old and new cadres.



He said, "Solving the operational handover problem of our cadre team is an important task facing the entire party. To solve this problem, veteran cadres must step down from leadership positions gradually. Those remaining temporarily on the front line should guard against major issues and ensure proper mentorship." He also emphasized the need to promote thousands of middle-aged and young cadres to various leadership teams. He stressed: "Promotions must be made in the thousands, not just promoting tens, or hundreds." Only in this way, there can be enough cadres to succeed the veteran cadres' work, however, "those who made their careers by rebelling against Lin Biao and Jiang Qing during the Cultural Revolution, those with serious factionalism, and those who involved in violent actions, cannot be promoted. On the contrary, they must be resolutely removed from the leadership team." He said that we should be bold in promoting, while also being cautious about politics. When comparing morality and talent, we should focus more on morality, which is to say, indeed, promote those with strong party principles, upright style, and dare to uphold principles. He believed that as long as the cadre handover issue is well-handled, there will be successors for our party mission.

On the morning of September 9, the presidium of the congress held a meeting. According to the preliminary election results, it established the official candidate list for three committees and also passed the draft resolution regarding the work report of the Central Discipline Inspection Committee. In the afternoon, various delegations held group meetings to review the list of candidates proposed by the presidium.

From the morning of October 10 to 11, a plenary meeting was held to elect members of the Central Committee and the Central Advisory Committee. After thorough preparation, the Congress democratically elected 210 members of the Central Committee and 138 alternate members, forming a new Central Committee. Among these 348 members and alternate members, 211 were newly elected, accounting for 65% of the total number. 171 of them were under 60 years old, accounting for 49.1% of the total. 122 of them had college degrees, accounting for 35.1% of the total. There was a significant improvement in terms of knowledge and specialization from the previous Central Committee. The Central Committee also reserved eight honorable revolutionary elders, including Ye Jianying, Deng Xiaoping, Li Xiannian, Chen Yun, Xu Xiangqian, Nie Rongzhen, Peng Zhen, and Deng Yingchao. At the same time, a Central Advisory Committee, which never existed before in the history of the Party, was newly established, with 172 members elected. They all had more than 40 years of Party membership, made significant contributions to the Party, and had rich leadership experience. 133 members were also elected to the Central Discipline Inspection Committee.

The establishment of these three committees embodied Deng Xiaoping's "Reform of the Party and State Leadership System" in setting up three committees, further implementing the principle of cadre alternation between the old and the new. This ensured a strong and improved leadership for the Party and a long-lasting domestic peace for the country, provided a reliable organizational guarantee for the full development of socialist construction.

On September 11, the Twelfth Congress came to a close, and Li Xiannian delivered the closing speech. He highly praised Hu Yaobang's report and the new Party constitution, as well as the achievements of the congress. He called for the extensive and in-depth publicity, study of the spirit of the Twelfth Congress, implementing practical measures, and striving to achieve our great goals step by step.

From September 12 to 13, the first plenary session of the Twelfth Central Committee of the Party was held. Hu Yaobang and Zhao Ziyang presided over the meeting. The plenary session elected Wan Li, Xi Zhongxun, Wang Zhen, Wei Guoqing, Ulanhu, Fang Yi, Deng Xiaoping, Deng Yingchao, Ye Jianying, Li Xiannian, Li Desheng, Yang Shangkun, Yang Dezhi, Yu Qiuli, Song Renqiong, Zhang Tingfa, Chen Yun, Zhao Ziyang, Hu Qiaomu, Hu Yaobang, Nie Rongzhen, Ni Zhifu, Xu Xiangqian, Peng Zhen, Liao Chengzhi as members of the Central Political Bureau, and elected Yao Yilin, Qin Jiwei, Chen Muhua as alternate members of the Central Political Bureau.

Hu Yaobang, Ye Jianying, Deng Xiaoping, Zhao Ziyang, Li Xiannian, Chen Yun were elected as members of the Standing Committee of the Central Political Bureau.



Hu Yaobang was elected as the Secretary General of the Central Committee, Wan Li, Xi Zhongxun, Deng Liqun, Yang Yong, Yu Qiuli, Gu Mu, Chen Pixian, Hu Qili, and Yao Yilin as Secretaries of the Central Secretariat, with Qiao Shi and Hao Jianxiu as alternate secretaries.
The plenary meeting decided on Deng Xiaoping as Chairman of the Central Military Commission, with Ye Jianying, Xu Xiangqian, and Nie Rongzhen as Vice Chairmen, and Yang Shangkun as the standing Vice Chairman.
The plenary session approved Deng Xiaoping as the Chairman of the Central Advisory Commission, with Bo Yibo, Xu Shiyou, Tan Zhenlin, and Li Weihan as Vice Chairmen, and Wang Ping and another 23 people as standing members. Chen Yun was approved as the First Secretary of the Central Discipline Inspection Commission, with Huang Kecheng as the Second Secretary, Wang Heshou as the Standing Secretary, Wang Congwu, Han Guang, Li Chang, Ma Guorui, Han Tianshi as Secretaries, and Ma Guorui, Han Tianshi and another 11 people as standing members.
The Twelfth National Congress of the Party was a very important meeting, which holds a significant historical achievement and position in the history of the party and in the history of socialism construction in our country.
3. Main contributions and historical status of the Twelfth Congress
This congress explicitly proposed the proposition of "Socialism with Chinese Characteristics". The theory of Deng Xiaoping on the socialist road with Chinese characteristics has provided great guidance for reform and opening up and socialist modernization in our country.
First, the Twelfth Congress smoothly achieved the turnover of old and new leaders. One of the main topics of the Twelfth Congress was to solve the turnover of new and old cadres and to realize the revolutionization, youthization, intellectualization, and specialization of cadres as soon as possible. In the history of the international communist movement, the turnover of high-level leadership of the party is always a matter that relates to the fate of the party and the state, but also a problem that has not been solved very well and has had painful lessons. The Twelfth Congress made an active and effective exploration of this issue.
Second, the congress formulated and passed a new "Party Constitution". The "Party Constitution" is the fundamental law of the party, and all past party congresses have attached great importance to the revision and formulation of the "Party Constitution". The Twelfth Congress of the Party, in order to build the party into a strong core leading the cause of socialist modernization, to greatly improve the political quality of the whole party, to enhance the fighting strength of the party, formulated a very distinctive new "Party Constitution". Its characteristics are: It has a rather substantial "General Principles", which succinctly summarizes the nature and overall task of the party, and on how the party correctly plays a leading role in national life, it has made Marxist provisions; for the requirements of party members and party officials in thought, politics, and organization, they are stricter than the provisions of past Party Constitutions; based on historical experience and lessons, the new Party Constitution emphasizes that organizations at all levels from the central to the grassroots must strictly abide by the principles of democratic centralism and collective leadership, and clearly stipulates: "Any form of personal worship is prohibited." It has made many new provisions for improving the system of the party's central and local organizations, for strengthening the party's discipline and disciplinary inspection organs, for strengthening the construction of grassroots organizations of the party. The new Party Constitution adopted by the Twelfth Congress was formulated with the wisdom of the whole party and the accumulation of its historical experience.
Third, the Twelfth Congress also enriched and developed Marxism on some theoretical issues. On the issue of the basic characteristics of socialism, the report of the Twelfth Congress proposed a new content in the characteristics of socialism, i.e., socialist spiritual civilization and high socialism democracy. In this way, the basic characteristics of socialism include both the relations of production and productive forces, as well as the superstructure and ideology, and therefore appear even more comprehensive and complete. On the issue of the structure of socialist ownership, the report of the Twelfth Congress pointed out that the socialist state economy occupies a dominant position in the whole national economy, but there is a need for coexistence of multiple forms over a long period of time. On the issue of socialist planning and market, past discussions often emphasized planning and excluded the market, the Twelfth Congress proposed the principle of planned economy as the main, supplemented by market regulation, and under this principle, the boundaries and limits of directive plans, indicative plans, and market regulation should be correctly divided.



On the issue of class struggle during the socialist era, the Twelfth Congress report proposes that, after the exploiting class has been eliminated as a class, most of the contradictions existing in our society do not have the nature of class struggle. While class struggle is no longer the main contradiction in our society, it will continue to exist within a certain range in our society for a long time, and under certain conditions, it may even intensify. Additionally, the Twelfth Congress report also has new expressions on issues such as the construction of spiritual civilization and the construction of the Party. These new understandings enrich and develop the Marxist theoretical treasure trove.

Fourth, the Twelfth Party Congress scientifically summarized the historical experience of the Party. According to the current actual situation in our country, it set forth the ambitious goals of creating a new situation of socialist construction and a more complete series of correct guidelines, policies, and measures. It proposed the overall task and general line of the Party in the new historical period. It ranked economic construction, political construction, and ideological and cultural construction simultaneously as goals of socialist construction, which was the first instance in the history of socialist construction in our country and was also a first in the international communist movement. The Twelfth Congress fully initiated a new situation in the modernization of socialism in our country. After the Twelfth Congress, China's reform and opening up and the cause of socialist modernization entered a period of vigorous development.

Part II: The formulation of the economic system reform program and the comprehensive implementation of reform and opening up

With the advancement of rural and urban economic reforms, the content of the reforms has greatly exceeded the originally envisaged realm of developing commodity production and commodity exchange, revealing more and more tendencies towards the development of a commodity economy and market regulation. This further touched on the core command plan system of the planned economy, exposing deeper contradictions and problems, and thereby triggering fierce debates. The focus of the debate was whether or not the economy at the current stage in China is a commodity economy, and whether or not we needed to establish an economic system that is compatible with the commodity economy.

1. Theoretical confrontation on "Socialist Commodity Economy"

At that time, quite a few people believed that the socialist economy is a planned economy, not a commodity economy. Since it is a planned economy, the economic system should naturally be adapted to the planned economy. This opinion is easily morally high, because in the eyes of many people, there are many discussions in the classic works of Marxism. As long as the speech of the "ancestors" is quoted, there are sharp theoretical weapons, the so-called "socialism is a commodity economy" argument is irreparable.

However, both before and after the third plenary session of the eleventh central committee, many economists have insisted on the idea of "commodity economy". Going back a bit farther, as early as in 1959, Wang Xuewen and Qi Qi jointly published an article in "Economic Research", proposing "planned development of the commodity economy". After the third plenary session of the 11th Central Committee, veteran Guangdong economist Zhuo Jing wrote a paper in the spring of 1979, unequivocally proposing: break the product economy and develop the commodity economy. Also, in the same year, at the socialist economic value law discussion meeting held in Wuxi, Professor Hu Zhaopei of Xiamen University explicitly put forth the argument that "the socialist economy is a planned commodity economy based on public ownership". In 1979, Deng Liqun, the vice president of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, published an article in "Finance and Trade Economics" Issue 11, arguing that the current stage of socialist economy is a commodity economy.

In October 1979, the "Preliminary Opinions on the General Idea of Economic System Reform" issued by the Economic System Reform Group of the State Council Financial and Economic Committee, straightforwardly wrote: The current stage of socialist economy in China is a commodity economy where public ownership of production materials predominates, and various economic elements coexist. It is necessary to establish an economic system that fits with it. Despite the two qualifiers at the beginning, it clearly set the establishment of an economic system adapted to the commodity economy as the goal of reform. According to Professor Yang Qixian, who participated in the draft, this sentence was added by Xue Muqiao.

During this period, Chen Yun was also thinking about how to reform the planned economic system.



In March 1979, he summarized in the research proposal of "Planning and Market Issues": "For sixty years, the major disadvantage that has emerged in the planning work system of the Soviet Union or China is only 'planned proportionally.' There is no need for market regulation under the socialist system. The so-called market regulation is to regulate according to the law of value, and in some aspects of economic life, we can use the 'anarchic', 'blind' production method for regulation." This was the earliest mention within the party of the need for market regulation under the planned economic system. Therefore, throughout the 1980s, plans and markets, and their relationship and proportion, became the mainstream discourse within the party and the theoretical world. In 1981, Chen Yun summarized this statement as "the planned economy is supported by market regulation."

Concerning whether it is a planned economy or a commodity economy, the economic and ideological world has been exploring this through arguments; however, in 1982, a momentous change occurred. In early May of that year, the National Office for Economic Reform (reorganized as the Economic System Reform Commission in 1983) and the State Council Economic Center jointly held a large-scale discussion on the theoretical issues of economic reform. The seminar was divided into eight groups, with more than two hundred participants. The keynote of this seminar affirmed the planned economy, holding that the planned economy is a socialist economic system. Although some scholars pointed out that commodity economy is the basic content of commodity production and commodity exchange in theory, they have no essential difference. Still, the dominant opinion believes that the existence of commodity production and commodity exchange in socialist societies cannot be said to constitute a commodity economy.

Due to the lack of theoretical progress, the political report at the Twelfth National Congress of the Communist Party of China held in September 1982 emphasized the principle of "prioritize planned economy and supplement with market regulation”, pointing out: "China implements a planned economy based on public ownership. Planned production and circulation are the main body of China's national economy. As for the production and distribution of production materials and consumer materials, particularly backbone enterprises affecting the overall economy in the state-owned economy, it must implement directive planning... For the collective ownership economy, some directive indicators should also be given as needed."

The Twelfth Congress confirmed that China still implements a planned economy and maintaine directive plans and directive indicators. This was an inevitable understanding during the initial stage of China's reform of “crossing the river by feeling the stones”. Under these circumstances, the "Commodity Economics Theory" naturally fell into an awkward situation. In 1982 and 1983, criticism of the expressions "socialist commodity economy" and "planned commodity economy" in newspapers gradually heated up.

Some scholars believe that: "The key feature of the socialist economy should be the planned economy, not the commodity economy. The foothold of planned commodity economy is still the commodity economy— 'planned' is abstracted. If the planned economy no longer exists, where does 'planned' come from?"

Other scholars believe: "If we summarize our economy as a commodity economy, it will blur the essential difference between the socialist economy and the capitalist economy. The essential characteristic of the socialist economy can only be the planned economy... Downgrading the socialist economy to a 'commodity economy' can only be a historical regression. In fact, without a planned economy, there will be no socialism."

Of course, some scholars believe that it is correct to draw the line between socialist planned economies and capitalist market economies by whether there is a directive plan.

For a time, newspapers and public opinion were full of righteous denunciations of the "Commodity Economics Theory". Xue Muqiao, who advocated the "Commodity Economics Theory", was even criticized for "having the weaknesses of intellectuals."




After this intense criticism, Xue Muqiao finally made a concession, proposing that "the most important feature of the socialist economy is not the commodity economy, but the planned economy which is based on the public ownership of the means of production, and in which commodity production and exchange exist".
On September 6, 1982, Liu Guoguang, an economist at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, published an article titled "Adhering to the Basic Direction of Economic System Reform" in the People's Daily, emphasizing the importance of guiding plans and relatively reducing the scope of directive plans. On September 21, the "People's Daily" published a long article on the front page of the first edition in the name of the newspaper's commentator, indirectly criticizing Liu Guoguang.
The article continually emphasized the importance of directive plans, emphasizing that "the use of the market does not mean regulation by the market," stating that "directive plans are not, as some comrades have determined, only necessary when the national economy is in certain situations of adjustment. They are also necessary for the production and distribution of products related to public welfare and key industries in general conditions. In fact, they are the cornerstone of the principle that the planned economy is the main and market regulation is supplementary". Liu Guoguang's article was sent to the People's Daily before the 12th National Congress of the Communist Party of China and was published on the eve of the congress, contradicting the spirit of the political report of the congress. From the fall of 1982 to 1983, the forces to defend the directive plan were quite strong. Deng Liqun, who wrote an article advocating "commodity economy" in 1979, also joined in the criticism of commodity economy.
Actually, one important reason why such high-profile criticism of commodity economy emerged in 1982 and 1983 stemmed from a macro explanation of our country's economy after the 12th National Congress. The relationship between market regulation and the planned economy is like the relationship between the bird and the cage. If the bird represents invigorating the economy, the cage represents the national plan. Activating the economy and market regulation can only work within the scope allowed by the plan, and cannot depart from the guidance of the plan. This is equivalent to saying that the ongoing state-owned enterprise reform is a "change within the cage". Another political background was the Anti-Spiritual Pollution Campaign in 1983. At that time, some people took the advocacy of "commodity economy" as a target of "spiritual pollution" for criticism. Fortunately, this deviation was quickly corrected by the central government. The process of Chinese reform always creates new opportunities in the midst of "mountains and rivers in doubt". In the climax of criticism of the commodity economy, a new change is brewing.
2. The divergence and breakthrough of the Planned Management System Reform
In 1983, the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China and the State Council were ready to advance the "macro first change" strategy on a global scale. Where to start with macro first change? They chose the "directive planning system of the product planning economy" - that is, the planning management system. The planning management system controls the overall situation of the planned economy, so the first step in advancing the macro first change strategy on a global scale was to reform the planning management system.
From August to December 1983, the Planned Management System Reform Leading Group was established under the leadership of the Secretariat of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China, and the Planned Management System Reform Working Group was set up. The main members of the working group came from the State Planning Commission and the State Council's Reform Office, with the office located in the South District Guard Building of Zhongnanhai. The task of the Planning Management System Reform Working Group was to propose a reform plan. This work from August to December 1983, due to differing views in discussion and large gaps between different views, most of the time was spent on debate.
There were two representative views during the debate:



The first opinion suggests that state-owned enterprises should expand their autonomy in production and operation, broaden the scope of market regulation, and take responsibility for their profits and losses. This requires narrowing the scope of directive planning and correspondingly reducing the range of state-priced products. 

The second opinion emphasizes two points: (1) Any important product related to the national economy, whether it is in short supply or surplus, should have directive planning. The scope of directive planning cannot and should not be reduced. (2) State-owned enterprises cannot operate under a profit-and-loss responsibility system nor a relative profit-and-loss responsibility system. The reason is that if state-owned enterprises apply a profit and loss system, they won't be willing to accept low-price directive production plans and product allocation plans.

The debate was intense and in-depth. The economist Wang Zhuo, who participated in this discussion, specifically recalled several events that occurred during the discussion:

The first event, Neresh, who is known as the father of Hungarian reform, visited China. When he visited the National Planning Commission, some people asked him: did Hungary really cancel the directive plan? To this, some people present expressed obvious doubts. When Neresh visited the Ministry of Materials and other ministries, some units also raised similar questions, showing skepticism about Hungary's cancellation of directive planning. Neresh was deeply puzzled by this, and when he arrived at the State Council Reform Office, he asked: why did some ministries in your country not believe in Hungary's reform of cancelling directive planning? He expressed regret about this! This event illustrates that at that time, central ministries widely disagreed with the reform of reducing directive planning, and did not approve of the reform of canceling directive planning.

The second event, during a reporting meeting attended by ministry leaders, someone pointedly said that Wang Zhuo had proposed the theory of product production during the discussion. At that time, whoever advocated for the expansion of product production was considered heretical. Wang Zhuo was prepared to respond. Immediately, Liao Jili from the State Council Reform Office protected Wang Zhuo, saying that it was not the case, and blocked the attacking comments from that comrade. Therefore, Wang Zhuo didn't need to reply any further.

The third event, at the same meeting, a somewhat famous economist spoke out against the reform of reducing the scope of directive planning. After the meeting, some comrades were in a lively debate, accusing him of being a verbal reformist who would readily change his original points with the shift in "political wind."

The fourth event, the different opinions initially discussed within the Planning System Reform Working Group were leaked outside of the meeting. Consequently, someone from the CPC Central Committee Policy Research Office wrote a letter to the leading comrades of the CPC Central Committee, stating that some people are now rekindling the debate on directive planning. What was originally a dispute over reform issues was painted with political colors, preventing this beneficial grand debate from achieving the desired results.

After several months of work, the Planning Management System Reform Working Group produced a compromise draft incorporating the two opinions. After more modifications, it did not form a proper document. However, the strategy of macro change did not fail, and the "grand debate" has not concluded.



In 1984, the system reform project in China continued and achieved breakthrough major results. This is "The Decision on Economic System Reform" passed by the Third Plenary Session of the Twelfth Central Committee of the Communist Party of China on October 20, 1984. This decision acknowledged for the first time that what China was implementing was a "planned commodity economy".
3. The Drafting and Passage of "The Decision on Economic System Reform"
The drafting team of "The Decision on Economic System Reform" was left over from the drafting team of the government work report for the Sixth National People's Congress. The team includes Yuan Mu, Gao Shangquan, Gui Shipu, Wang Renzhi, Xie Minggan, Yang Qixian etc. It started with Yuan Mu in charge of drafting the outline. The draft was discussed many times and could not break out of the circle of "planning economy as the main and market regulation as the supplement". At that time, some people believed that in order to break out of this circle, there must be a breakthrough in the issue of the commodity economy, that is, to change the reform target model from "planning economy as the main, market regulation as the supplement" to "planned commodity economy". However, the views of the drafting team on this issue were very different.
Between July and August 1984, the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China held a meeting in Beidaihe. Under the chairmanship of Hu Yaobang, the drafting team discussed the outline twice. Hu Yaobang was not satisfied with this outline. He emphasized repeatedly that this is a historic document, and it must be well written. He also said that economic issues should listen to Zhao Ziyang's opinions, and proposed to include the development of various economic components. Hu Yaobang strengthened the drafting team and added Lin Jianqing, Lin Zili, Gong Yuzhi, and Zheng Biji. The person in charge was changed from Yuan Mu to Lin Jianqing.
After returning to Beijing from Beidaihe, both Hu Yaobang and Zhao Ziyang hosted discussions respectively. When talking about the relationship between planning and market, Zhao Ziyang said, "I lean towards writing about planned commodity economy.". During this period, many people had given suggestions to Zhao Ziyang. For instance, in August, Dong Fuchu, Tong Dalin, Yu Guangyuan and more than ten economists held a meeting in Baiwanzhuang, Beijing, adamantly advocate for "planned commodity economy". They wrote a conference report to Zhao Ziyang, stating their reasons. Thus, it can be seen that Zhao Ziyang's initial establishment of "planned commodity economy" was based on the opinions of many parties.
Zhao Ziyang convened the drafting team to discuss twice in Zhongnanhai. Besides the drafting team members, Deng Liqun was also invited to the last discussion. Zhao Ziyang asked everyone, "Are there any theoretical problems?" Yang Qixian answered: "It can stand theoretically." Zhao Ziyang asked again: "Is there any contradiction with the constitution?" Zheng Biji answered: "No contradiction..."



"The Constitution doesn't mention 'a planned economy being principal and market adjustment auxiliary,'" Zhao Ziyang announced at the end of the meeting. As everyone stood and prepared to leave, Zhao Ziyang asked Deng Liqun, "Old Deng, what do you think?" Deng Liqun replied, "That's exactly what I proposed in 1979". Sometimes, the details of history can be thought-provoking.

On September 9, Zhao Ziyang wrote a letter to Hu Yaobang, Deng Xiaoping, Li Xianian, and Chen Yun, suggesting that China's economic system should be summed up in the following four points:
1. China practices a planned economy, not a market economy.
2. Spontaneous and blind regulation of production and exchange through the market is limited to small commodities, three types of agricultural and sideline products, and service repair industries, which play an auxiliary role in the national economy.
3. A planned economy does not mean a mainly directive plan. Directive and indicative plans are specific forms of a planned economy ...For a considerable length of time, our policy should be to gradually reduce directive planning and expand indicative planning.
4. Indicative plans mainly use economic means of regulation, while directive plans must also consider the role of economic laws, especially the law of value. The socialist economy is a planned commodity economy based on public ownership. Plans should be implemented through the law of value, and the law of value should be used to serve planning. The description "plans first, law of value second" is not accurate, and should not be continued in the future...

Zhao Ziyang's letter quickly received approval from the four standing members of the Politburo. On September 11, the Central Committee convened approximately 1,500 people, including members of the Central Committee and alternate members in Beijing, members of the Central Advisory Commission, members of the Central Discipline Inspection Commission, main cadres of various central departments, leaders of provinces, cities and regions, big military districts and 26 large enterprises to discuss the draft proposal. Through discussion, attendees strengthened their recognition of the necessity and urgency of economic system reform, especially city system reform, and agreed to incorporate "planned commodity economy" into the "Resolution of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China on Economic Structure Reform" (hereafter referred to as "Resolution"). At the same time, the title of the fourth section of the draft "Reforming the planning system, consciously applying the law of value" was changed to "Planning system that consciously applies the law of value, developing socialist commodity economy"

"However, including this in the Resolution does not mean everyone's thoughts are aligned," said Yang Qixian. Due to ongoing controversy, the night before the final draft of the "Resolution" was formally drafted, a sentence was added: "However, under socialist conditions, labor, banks, land, and mines are not commodities." This effectively means that the commodity economy is limited to the production of products, and does not include elements of production, it is not a complete commodity economic system.

The Twelfth Plenary Session of the Third Central Committee passed the decision on economic system reform, clarifying the urgency and necessity of accelerating the economic system reform with a focus on urban areas, and laying out the direction, nature, tasks, and basic policy principles for the reforms.

The most outstanding contribution of this "Resolution" is that it broke the traditional view that equates a planned economy with a commodity economy, affirming that China's socialist economy is a "planned commodity economy based on public ownership." The reforms in China are self-improvement and developments of the socialist system. The basic tasks of the reform are to further implement policies to stimulate the economy domestically, to implement openness externally, and to gradually establish a lively and vibrant socialist economic system with Chinese characteristics that promotes the development of social productivity.



Centered around the basic task of reform, the "Decision" clearly put forward the main problems to be solved, namely, establishing a vibrant socialist economic system; making the enhancement of enterprise vitality the central link of economic system reform; establishing a planning system that consciously applies the law of value, developing a socialist commodity economy; establishing a reasonable pricing system, giving full attention to the role of economic leverage; implementing the separation of government and enterprise responsibilities, and properly playing the role of government institutions in managing the economy; establishing various forms of economic responsibility system, earnestly implementing the principle of distribution according to work; actively developing various forms of economy, further expanding foreign and domestic economic and technical exchanges; using a new generation of people, creating a grand team of socialist economic management cadres; strengthening the leadership of the Party, to ensure the smooth progress of the reform.
This "Decision" has made the direction, task and requirements of our country's reform more clear, and is a programmatic document guiding our country's comprehensive economic system reform. Although it has not proposed the issue of establishing a socialist market economic system in its reform goals, the proposed goal of planned commodity economy on the basis of public ownership has already implied a clear market orientation, which is a major breakthrough in socialist economic theory. Deng Xiaoping gave it high praise, believing it to be "political economy combining Marxist basic principles and Chinese socialist practice."
Practice has proved that the release and implementation of the "Decision on Economic System Reform" of the Third Plenary Session of the Twelfth Central Committee is another liberation of the thoughts of the vast number of cadres and the masses. After this plenary session, the economic system reform focused on urban areas began to unfold around expanding the autonomy of enterprises, piloting shareholding system, reforming ownership structure, changing employment system, implementing the factory director responsibility system and so on.

III. Define the theme of the era and develop foreign relations

After the Third Plenary Session of the Eleventh Central Committee, when the Party and the state shifted the focus of work to socialist modernization construction centered on economic construction, diplomatic work, like other tasks, serves the center of economic construction and the key point of socialist modernization construction. To adapt to this need, the Party and the country adjusted their diplomatic strategy.

1. Adjustment of International Strategy and Diplomatic Policy

Centered on economic construction, it is necessary to have a good external condition, that is, a peaceful international environment. How to create a peaceful international environment is restricted by various factors. How to correctly analyze and estimate the international situation and adopt the correct foreign strategy and policy is one of the extremely important aspects.

(1) Preliminary adjustment in Chinese leaders' understanding of war and peace. When New China was just established, in order to resist and break the hostility, isolation and blockade of the United States, the Chinese government adopted a "one-sided" foreign policy and formed an alliance with the Soviet Union. This was necessary in the international environment at that time. In the late 1950s, the Soviet Union implemented chauvinism of a big country, forced China to accept its demands damaging China's sovereignty, and pressured China politically, economically, and militarily, leading to a rapid deterioration of Sino-Soviet relations. In the 1970s, one of the two superpowers, the United States, strategically withdrew due to its weakening in the Vietnam War, while the Soviet Union, which was in the stage of military strengthening, took the opportunity to expand massively, seriously threatening world peace and China's security. Under this international situation, the Chinese government adjusted its foreign policy, adopted a "one-line" policy, and implemented a foreign strategy of aligning with the United States against the Soviet Union. The implementation of this strategy not only effectively maintained China's own security but also greatly curbed the global expansion momentum of the Soviet Union.

After the end of the "Cultural Revolution," how to analyze and judge the international situation and formulate a foreign strategy and policy based on this became a major issue in China's foreign relations. In December 1977, the Central Military Commission held a meeting, at which Hua Guofeng, Chairman of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China, delivered a speech on the international situation, especially the issues of war and peace, stating that due to the fact that both imperialism and social imperialism are inherently brewing war, the U.S.-Soviet contention would eventually lead to war. Therefore, the outbreak of a world war is inevitable, either sooner or later. We must seize the time and prepare for war.



Compared to the world war triggered by the US-Soviet rivalry, the greatest threat to China's security was still the Soviet Union's invasion of China. The Soviet Union's intention to eliminate us never died, making it our most important and dangerous enemy. In light of this, we need to estimate enough, put our foothold on its attack on us, prepare for its early and severe attack, carry out sudden attacks, and prepared to deal with the most serious situation, never harboring any fluke mentality. The veteran comrades present here should prepare to fight another big war in their lifetime. This recognition, to a certain extent, represented the views of Chinese leaders at the time. This understanding indicated that the sense of inevitable and impending crisis of the war, especially the Soviet Union's invasion of China, was quite strong.

Although the World War and the Soviet Union's invasion of China were seen as inevitable and imminent, Chinese leaders still sought to delay the war, fight for time, carry out construction and strengthen national defense. And there were certain favorable conditions for delaying the outbreak of war: Mao Zedong's theory of the three-world division and the revolutionary diplomatic line could form a good international anti-hegemony united front. In addition, the Soviet Union's global strategy was not ready and the US was defensive globally after the failure in Southeast Asia. So, there was time to fight for a delay in the outbreak of the war. However, because of the serious estimate of the danger of war, it was still challenging to determine exactly how long the war could be delayed. It was likely that the war could be stopped for five years or a little longer, but it could also only be delayed for two, three, or four years.

In the early 1980s, the above basic estimation of the international situation had not changed. China still believed that various contradictions in the world would continue to develop, the international situation would become more turbulent, and the factors of war would continue to increase. However, considering the international political reality of the war not yet broken out and the domestic political reality of China not being ready for war, Chinese leaders still hoped to delay the arrival of the war as much as possible.

In January 1980, Deng Xiaoping expressed at the CPC Central Committee cadre meeting, "We are confident that we can delay the outbreak of war if we do a good job in anti-hegemony struggle and fight for a longer period of peace." His idea of disrupting the US-Soviet strategic deployment through anti-hegemony struggle to delay the outbreak of war was proposed. Deng Xiaoping's sense of imminent war crisis was further alleviated, and the confidence in fighting for a longer period of peace was further strengthened. As the judgment of the danger of war tended to be relaxed, Deng Xiaoping extended the time for delaying the war and fighting for peace, from 5 years or less to 10 years or even 20 years.



We need a relatively long-term peaceful environment for development. Despite the unstable international situation at that time, especially after the Soviet invaders went into Afghanistan at the end of 1979, the global situation became even more turbulent. However, Deng Xiaoping kept prolonging the peace time that could be strived for, which clearly showed a significant and essential change in his views on the world situation, war and peace. He began to shift from highlighting the danger of war to emphasizing striving for a longer period of peace and stressed that we should seize this peaceful time to develop the economy, rather than preparing for war.
(2) A new summary of the theme of the world era. With China's relations with several major countries undergoing major changes, China quickly noticed the positive effect of this change.
In the late 1970s, the international situation was still somewhat unpredictable, and at the end of 1979, the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan occurred. In response to this international situation, our country's foreign relations revolved around the idea of "striving for more time without conflict," "delaying the outbreak of war," and "wanting to seize time" for development.
After China and the United States established diplomatic relations, China strengthened the US-Soviet “one-line” strategy. This was both for considerations of national security and for the need to expedite opening up to the outside world. However, the normal development of Sino-U.S. relations has always faced some obstacles, the most prominent being the issue of Taiwan. Shortly after the establishment of diplomatic relations between China and the United States, the U.S. Congress passed the "Taiwan Relations Act," which damaged Sino-U.S. relations. It was not until August 17, 1982, when the Chinese and U.S. governments issued a joint communique on resolving U.S. arms sales to Taiwan in phases until completely, that Sino-U.S. relations stabilized. However, the U.S. government did not fulfill its promise. In this situation, China began to distance itself from the United States.
In 1982, based on the need to strive for peace, delay war, and establish more balanced foreign relations, the Chinese government began to oppose hegemony and maintain world peace, and strengthen solidarity and cooperation with the third world as the basic foreign policy of our country in the new era. Deng Xiaoping emphasized, "Our proposal to maintain world peace is not empty talk, it is based on our own needs and of course it also meets the needs of the people worldwide, especially the people in the third world. Therefore, opposing hegemony, maintaining peace is our real policy, it is the program of our foreign policy." In September of the same year, Hu Yaobang also publicly stated in the Twelfth Congress Report, "China insists on an independent foreign policy and develops relations with various countries guided by the Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence."
Entering the mid-1980s, the international situation clearly began to ease. Not only did US-Soviet relations improve, but Sino-Soviet relations also underwent changes. In response to these new changes, in May 1984, Deng Xiaoping clearly proposed that the "peace issue" and the "north-south issue" had become the two prominent issues around the world. On March 4, 1985, while meeting with Japanese guests, he further made the judgment that "peace and development are the two major issues in the contemporary world." He said: "The real major issues in the world now, the global strategic issues, one is the peace issue, one is the economic issue, or the development issue. The peace issue encompasses the east and the west, the development issue encompasses the south and the north. To sum up, these are four words: east, west, south, and north."



"The introduction of the theme of peace and development laid a crucial theoretical foundation for the transformation of diplomatic strategy in the new era.
(3) Re-establishment of diplomacy based on independence and autonomy. On September 1, 1982, Deng Xiaoping solemnly announced in his opening speech at the 12th National Congress: Independence and self-reliance, self-sustained revitalization, whether in the past, present, or future, are our footholds. The Chinese people cherish their friendship and cooperation with other countries and peoples, and even more cherish the autonomy and independence they have fought for over a long period. No foreign country should expect China to become its vassal, nor should it expect China to swallow the bitter fruit of damage to our national interests. 
It is obvious that Deng Xiaoping's remarks targeted the changes in Sino-US relations at that time, expressing the Chinese government's serious stance and announced the transformation of China's diplomatic strategy.
Furthermore, Deng Xiaoping pointed out in his speech: Accelerate the socialist modernization, strive to achieve the reunification of the motherland, including Taiwan, oppose hegemonism, maintain world peace, these are the three major tasks for our people in the 1980s. Among these three tasks, the core is economic construction, which is the foundation to solve international and domestic issues.
Deng Xiaoping's speech clearly indicated that the goal of China's diplomatic strategy is to create a favorable international environment for the socialist modernization in China, demonstrating the focus of diplomatic work to serve economic construction.
Hu Yaobang, the General Secretary of the CPC Central Committee, comprehensively discussed the issue of China's persistence in its independent foreign policy in his political report at the 12th National Congress. He announced: "China will never be attached to any major powers or national groups, it will never yield to the pressure of any big country". "The five principles of peaceful coexistence apply to all our relations, including socialist countries."
Independence and peaceful coexistence have remained the diplomatic policy of New China since its establishment. However, from the 1950s to the late 1970s, due to the restrictions of the international environment and historical conditions at the time, the tendencies of "leaning to one side" and "drawing a line" with the US and Soviet Union had appeared. To some extent, these affected the implementation of the foreign policy of independence and peaceful coexistence and affected China's relations with some countries friendly to the U.S. or the Soviet Union.
Entering the 1980s, Deng Xiaoping, based on China's long-term diplomacy practice and changes in the international situation, brought new connotations to the diplomatic policy of independence and peaceful coexistence. The new connotation of independence is "non-alignment", not attached to any big powers or national groups. The new connotation of the principle of peaceful coexistence is that relations between countries are not judged by the differences or similarities of their social systems and ideologies; regardless the differences or similarities in social systems and ideologies, they should all be built on the basis of the five principles of peaceful coexistence. Deng Xiaoping believed that the practice of drawing lines or deeming affinity according to social systems or ideologies is unreliable. Only by transcending the differences and similarities in social systems and ideologies and universally implementing the five principles of peaceful coexistence can normal state relations be developed, international cooperation be enhanced, and world peace be maintained.
China upholds a diplomatic policy of independence and non-alignment, widely implements the principle of peaceful coexistence, and has received widespread acclaim and support internationally.
China takes the maintenance of world peace and the promotion of human progress and development as the fundamental purpose of its diplomatic work. To maintain world peace, we must first stop the arms race and implement real disarmament. In order to achieve this, the Chinese government has changed some of its past viewpoints and practices on the disarmament issue, actively participated in various international disarmament activities, and has put forward many new suggestions and propositions on this issue. For example, it proposed that the goal of disarmament should be to completely ban and thoroughly destroy nuclear weapons; the U.S. and the Soviet Union, possessing the world's largest nuclear arsenals, should take the lead in halting the testing, production, and deployment of all types of nuclear weapons, and to significantly reduce the presence of various nuclear weapons both within and outside their borders."



To prevent the outbreak of nuclear war, the Chinese government has proposed that all nuclear countries should undertake not to be the first to use nuclear weapons under any circumstances, especially not to use or threaten to use nuclear weapons against non-nuclear countries and non-nuclear zones. On this basis, an international convention should be concluded with the participation of all nuclear countries to ensure the prohibition of the use of nuclear weapons. At the same time as nuclear disarmament, there should be a substantial reduction in conventional arms; no country should develop, test, and deploy space weapons in any way; an international convention should be concluded as soon as possible to completely ban and thoroughly destroy chemical weapons. In order to ensure the implementation of disarmament, disarmament agreements must specify necessary and effective verification measures.
Considering that the issue of disarmament relates to the security interests of countries around the world, the Chinese government has also proposed that disarmament should not be delegated or monopolized by a few major powers, and their disarmament agreements should not harm the interests of other countries. All countries, regardless of their size or military strength, should enjoy equal rights to participate in discussions and solve the disarmament issue according to fair, reasonable, comprehensive, and balanced principles, and to effective disarmament.
In addition to the above fair and reasonable proposals, the Chinese government has also taken a series of practical actions on the issue of disarmament. For example, in 1985, it reduced the number of troops by 1 million, transferred military production to civilian use, and converted a large number of military facilities for civilian or shared military use. At the same time, defense spending was substantially reduced, and by the early 1990s, China's defense expenditure as a proportion of GDP was the lowest among any country in the world. The Chinese government's rational stance on reducing military equipment and practical actions have earned it widespread compliments from the international community.
The international strategic thinking and diplomatic theories put forward by Deng Xiaoping in the new era, and the adjustments of China's diplomatic policies, have perfected China's independent and peaceful foreign policy, creating a new situation in China's diplomatic work. This has played an important role in China's modernization, safeguarding world peace, developing friendly cooperation with various countries, and promoting common prosperity. It made a huge contribution.
2. Developing Peaceful and Friendly Relations with Major Countries
As Chinese leaders' views on war and peace were changing, China's relations with several major countries were also changing.
(1) The positive development of Sino-Japanese relations. After the Sino-Japanese Peace and Friendship Treaty was concluded in October 1978, both sides began to exhibit a positive development momentum in the political, economic, scientific, and cultural fields. In December 1979, Prime Minister Masayoshi Ito officially visited China. During this visit, both sides agreed that, although China and Japan have different systems, it is necessary to further strengthen dialogue between the governments to promote exchanges at various levels between the two countries. During this visit, the two leaders prominently discussed economic cooperation between China and Japan, and both leaders agreed that it is advisable for China and Japan to further cooperate in resources and energy. The two sides reached an agreement on cooperation to explore and exploit oil in the Bohai Sea and cooperate in the development of resources like coal. Japan also announced that from 1979 to 1983, it will provide JPY 330 billion (about USD 1.5 billion) in loans from the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund for construction projects prioritized in China's modernization plan. Starting from April 1980, Japan will also offer preferential tariff treatment to Chinese products. The two sides also signed a cultural exchange agreement during Prime Minister Ito’s visit. The visit greatly advanced economic cooperation between the two countries.
1982 marked the 10th anniversary of the normalization of Sino-Japanese diplomatic relations. Chinese Premier Zhao Ziyang and Japanese Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone exchanged visits.



At the end of May and beginning of June, 1982, during Zhao Ziyang's visit to Japan, he proposed three principles for the development of Sino-Japanese relations: On the basis of the existing peaceful and friendly relations between the two countries according to the "Sino-Japanese Joint Statement" and "Sino-Japanese Peace and Friendship Treaty", the economic relations between the two countries should be actively developed; Sino-Japanese economic relations should follow the principle of mutual benefit and equality, starting from each other's needs and possibilities, exchanging needs, taking strengths to make up for weaknesses, and continuously developing in new breadth and depth; The development of this type of economic relation serves the fundamental interests of the people of China and Japan and the wish for generations of friendship, and should be long-term and stable, unaffected by international turmoil. The Chinese-proposed three principles of Sino-Japanese relations received an active response from Prime Minister Suzuki and the Japanese government. In September of the same year, Prime Minister Suzuki made a return visit to China. Deng Xiaoping said to Prime Minister Suzuki that, to sum up, Sino-Japanese relations are about generations of friendship between the two peoples, and that is our state policy.

In November 1983, General Secretary Hu Yaobang visited Japan. Prime Minister Nakasone proposed to change the three principles of Sino-Japanese relations to four principles, adding "mutual trust" to the existing "peaceful and friendly, equal mutual benefit, long-term stability". Hu Yaobang agreed. According to the agreement between the two sides during this visit, the "Sino-Japanese Friendship 21st Century Committee" was established in 1984 with representatives from all walks of life in China and Japan, and 3,000 Japanese youths visited China in the same year. The following year, 500 Chinese youths visited Japan.

In March 1984, Prime Minister Nakasone visited China. In April 1985, Chairman Peng Zhen visited Japan. These mutual visits by leaders of the two countries made significant contributions to the establishment of the four principles of Sino-Japanese relations and the promotion of a long-term, stable, friendly, and cooperative relationship between China and Japan. During this period, exchanges and cooperation between the two countries in economic, cultural, and scientific and technological fields became more active. By 1989, the total trade between the two countries reached 18.9 billion USD, which was 2.7 times the total trade in 1979; Japan is China's second-largest trading partner, after the United States. The two countries made progress in capital cooperation and technology transfer. In December 1979, when Prime Minister Masayoshi Ohira of Japan visited China, he formally announced that the Japanese government would cooperate with China's six major projects, and decided to provide China with the first batch of government loans of 50 billion yen at low interest in 1979, with an annual interest rate of 3%, a repayment period of 30 years, and a grace period of 10 years. This is referred to as government development assistance, or ODA for short. In 1984, a second batch of low-interest loans of 470 billion yen (approximately 2.1 billion USD) was provided. In December 1984, the Japanese side agreed to provide China with a second batch of energy development loans of about 2.4 billion USD. In 1988, Japan proposed a third batch of low-interest loans of 810 billion yen, mainly for the construction of 42 key projects during the "Eighth Five-Year Plan" period. New progress has been made in the Sino-Japanese joint development of offshore oilfields. The two sides signed five contracts, with a total investment by the Japanese side of 800 million USD. To promote and protect the smooth progress of economic cooperation between the two countries, the two governments signed the Sino-Japanese Avoidance of Double Taxation Agreement in 1983. The ever-closer economic cooperation between China and Japan has effectively promoted their own economic development and brought great benefits to both sides.

Of course, while making good progress in bilateral relations, China and Japan have also encountered some problems, such as Japan's infringement of China's sovereignty on the Diaoyu Islands issue in 1979 and 1980; the "textbook issue" in the spring of 1982. At that time, when the Japanese Ministry of Education examined the history textbooks for primary and secondary schools, it distorted the history of Japanese militarist aggression against China, changing "aggression" to "entry", "full-scale aggression" against China to "full-scale attack", and even attributing the cause of the "Nanjing Massacre" to "due to the fierce resistance of the Chinese army, the Japanese army suffered heavy losses and killed many Chinese military and civilians in anger", etc., to exonerate the militarism of its responsibilities. In 1985, there was an incident where the Japanese Prime Minister and other government members officially paid homage to the Yasukuni Shrine, which houses the spirits of war criminals, etc. While these incidents have impacted on the smooth development of Sino-Japanese relations to some extent, overall, the development of relations between the two countries during this period was reasonably good.



(2) China-U.S. relations continue to advance through mutual understanding. China and the U.S. officially established diplomatic relations in 1979. In order to further enhance mutual understanding and promote the development of China-U.S. relations, Deng Xiaoping made an official friendly visit to the United States at the beginning of 1979 at the invitation of President Carter. This was the first visit to the US by a Chinese leader since the founding of the People's Republic of China, and was warmly welcomed by the US government and people. During his visit, Deng Xiaoping exchanged views with President Carter on international situations, particularly on the issue of Vietnam's invasion of Cambodia with the support of the Soviet Union. The two sides also focused on discussions on the Taiwan issue and China-U.S. relations. During the visit, China and the U.S. signed agreements on scientific and technological cooperation and cultural exchange, agreements on cooperation in education, business, and space, and agreements on establishing consular relations and mutual establishment of consulates, and decided to negotiate on signing trade, aviation, and maritime agreements. During the visit, Deng Xiaoping had extensive contacts with people from all walks of life in the United States.
The establishment of diplomatic relations between China and the US and Deng Xiaoping's visit to the US have promoted the development of China-US relations in various fields. In August 1980, China and the US signed the China-US Civil Aviation Agreement, China-US Maritime Agreement and China-US Textile Agreement in Washington. Trade between China and the US increased significantly, and cultural exchanges also rapidly developed. However, some of the US's incorrect practices on the Taiwan issue remain a major obstacle to the smooth development of China-US relations.
After the formal establishment of diplomatic relations between China and the United States, US President Carter proposed a "legislative adjustment" bill on US-Taiwan relations to Congress on January 26, 1979, indicating that the US would continue to maintain business, cultural, and other relations with Taiwan on a non-official basis and would establish the "American Institute in Taiwan" to handle related affairs. When the two houses of the U.S. Congress discussed this bill, they proposed a series of amendments that seriously violated the principles of the Sino-US diplomatic communiques and blatantly interfered in China's internal affairs. This could not help but arouse strong opposition from China.
At the end of March 1979, the two houses of the U.S. Congress passed the "Taiwan Relations Act," the basic spirit, and many specific provisions of which violated the Sino-U.S. diplomatic communique and well-recognized principles of international law. This is particularly reflected in the so-called "guarantee of Taiwan's security" issue and the nature of US-Taiwan relations. The Taiwan Relations Act declares: "The President shall promptly inform the Congress whenever the interests of the United States are threatened by any danger to the security or social economic system of the people on Taiwan, and any danger to the interests of the United States resulting therefrom. The President and the Congress should decide on appropriate action in response to any such danger in accordance with constitutional procedures." These provisions actually seek to indirectly restore the U.S.-Taiwan "Mutual Defense Treaty" that the U.S. announced would end in the Sino-U.S. diplomatic communique, blatantly interfering in China's internal affairs.
The "Taiwan Relations Act" also legally establishes that the United States will continue to provide so-called "defense materials" and "defense services" to Taiwan. The law stipulates: Recognizing the People's Republic of China should not in any way affect the tangible or intangible property held by Taiwanese authorities in the United States before the establishment of diplomatic relations between China and the United States. According to international law, after the United States recognized the Government of the People's Republic of China as the only legal government of China, it is obliged to hand over to the People's Republic of China, in a timely manner, the official property of China in the United States formerly occupied by the Taiwanese authorities. Many provisions in the Taiwan Relations Act actually treat Taiwan as an independent political entity and seek to make US-Taiwan relations official.
On April 10, Carter signed the "Taiwan Relations Act," making reservations on only a few issues, indicating that he would exercise the "discretion" given to the President by the law in a manner consistent with the agreement to establish diplomatic relations between China and the United States.



China is outraged by the enactment of the "Taiwan Relations Act". On April 19, Deng Xiaoping pointed out when meeting with the U.S. Senate Foreign Affairs Committee delegation visiting China: The political foundation of the normalization of relations between China and the United States is that there is only one China, and this foundation is now being disrupted; China is dissatisfied with the "Taiwan Relations Act" passed by the U.S. Congress, the most essential issue of this Act, is that it effectively does not recognize that there is only one China. On April 28, the Chinese Foreign Ministry notified the U.S. Embassy in China, pointing out that the "Taiwan Relations Act" was essentially an intentional continuation of treating Taiwan as a "country", treating the Taiwan authorities as "governments", many of its clauses violated the principles of the China-US diplomatic relations communique. On July 6, the U.S. Embassy in China responded: "The United States will comply with all understandings reached with the People's Republic of China on establishing diplomatic relations"; "The final U.S.-Taiwan Relations Act passed by Congress does not meet the government's intentions in every detail, but it provides the President with sufficient discretion powers to fully implement this law in accordance with the method of normalization". But the U.S. Congress eventually passed the bill.

Following the "Taiwan Relations Act" incident, the U.S. increased its arms sales to Taiwan, and after long-term negotiations between China and the U.S., in 1982, the "August 17" communique was reached, which further identified the principles and direction for solving the issue of arms sales to Taiwan. This was an important step in removing obstacles in China-US relations.

In order to promote mutual understanding between China and the U.S., stabilize relations between the two countries, promote China-US friendship, and maintain world peace, in January 1984, Premier Zhao Ziyang visited the U.S. at the invitation of President Reagan, and exchanges views on international situations and major international issues of interest to both sides with Reagan and other leaders of the U.S. government.

In April of the same year, President Reagan paid a return visit to the Chinese leaders visiting the U.S. In July 1985, Chairman Li Xiannian visited the U.S., and in October of the same year, U.S. Vice President Bush visited China. The reciprocal visits of the leaders of the two countries continued to exchange views on bilateral relations and major international issues, one of the core issues being the Taiwan issue. Obviously, only by eliminating the obstacle of the Taiwan issue can a truly reliable foundation be established for the stable and lasting development of China-US relations.

Although there are always obstacles between China and the U.S. on the Taiwan issue, the overall trend of the development in economy, trade, science and technology exchanges and cooperation between the two countries is positive. China-US economic and technological cooperation has gradually developed. By the end of 1986, the total amount of direct investment contracts agreed by the U.S. in China exceeded $2.627 billion. Of this, joint venture investment was $400 million, and offshore oil development cooperation investment was nearly $600 million. A total of 62 approved Sino-US joint ventures accounted for 6% of the total number of Sino-foreign joint ventures in China, and the total investment amount and the number of projects only second to the Hong Kong region, ranking first among all countries. Since the signing of the Science and Technology Cooperation Agreement between the two countries in 1979 till 1986, China and the U.S. have signed 27 official science and technology cooperation protocols, with more than 500 cooperation projects and over 5,000 personnel exchanges.

Trade between the two countries, which was almost zero in 1972, increased to the point where the U.S. became China's third-largest trading partner by 1985. From 1981 to 1986, the accumulated bilateral trade volume exceeded $35.3 billion. Among this, there was $5.9 billion in 1981; $5.28 billion in 1982; there was a decrease to $4 billion in 1983, but it rebound back to $6.1 billion in 1984; it reached $7.4 billion in 1985; and $7.3 billion in 1986.

In May 1983, when U.S. Commerce Department Secretary Baldridge visited China, he informed the Chinese government of President Reagan's new regulations easing technology exports to China, which changed China's classification from the "P" group to the "V" group in the U.S. export control classification, and listed China in the category of friendly non-aligned countries with the U.S. On June 21 of the same year, the U.S. formally announced this provision. In October 1985, the U.S. opened up exports of 27 different equipment categories to China. The U.S. has loosened its technology exports to China.



However, there are many problems in economic, trade, and technological cooperation between China and the United States. The protectionism within the United States has posed a threat to the development of Sino-US economic and trade relations. For example, the United States has repeatedly restricted the import of Chinese textiles. From 1972 to 1986, China's trade deficit with the United States had accumulated to $18.4 billion. The China-US investment protection agreement, due to the United States insisting on stricter conditions than other developed countries, remains unresolved after several years of negotiation. In technology transfer, the United States still has many restrictions on high-tech exports to China, which require the security review of the United States and review by the "Paris Club".

(3) China-Soviet relations developed through "breaking the ice". Beginning in the 1960s, Soviet leaders seriously violated the spirit of the "Sino-Soviet Treaty of Friendship, Alliance, and Mutual Assistance", leading to a serious deterioration of the relations between the two countries. By the late 1970s, the Soviet Union continued to maintain and strengthen its military pressure on China's northern border, posing a serious threat to China's security. This rendered the "Sino-Soviet Treaty of Friendship, Alliance, and Mutual Assistance" virtually defunct. Therefore, according to the relevant provisions of the Sino-Soviet Treaty, on April 3, 1979, the seventh meeting of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress decided not to extend the treaty after its expiry. On the same day, Chinese Foreign Minister Huang Hua met with Soviet Ambassador to China, Sherbakov, and handed him a note from the Chinese government to the Soviet government, notifying the Soviet side of the above-mentioned decision of the Standing Committee of the Chinese People's Congress.

In 1982, progress was made in talks between China and the U.S. on weapons sales to Taiwan, giving new impetus to Sino-U.S. relations and having a positive impact on Sino-Soviet relations. On March 24, Soviet leader Leonid Brezhnev gave a speech in Tashkent expressing a willingness to improve relations with China. Deng Xiaoping noticed the information passed by the Soviet side and immediately instructed the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to respond. On March 26, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs held a press conference and issued a brief statement on Sino-Soviet relations. The following day, the People's Daily published this statement in a prominent position on the front page, causing widespread international response. In the summer, Deng Xiaoping convened several central and foreign ministry leaders to propose a major action to deliver a message to the Soviet Union and strive for a major improvement in Sino-Soviet relations. However, this should be done on certain principles, one condition being that the Soviet Union must take some action, thus proposing that the Soviet Union take the initiative to resolve the "three major obstacles". Subsequently, heads of the ministries of foreign affairs of the two countries made working visits to each other's countries as guests of the ambassadors. On August 10, the head of the Soviet-Europe Department of the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs visited Moscow under the pretext of inspecting embassy work and suggested holding deputy foreign minister-level political consultations. The Soviet side agreed on the 20th to discuss bilateral relations with China at any time, place, and level to "eliminate obstacles to normalizing relations". Given the Soviet side's positive response, Deng Xiaoping, after hearing the report from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, decided to reopen the Sino-Soviet talks. Thereafter, the two sides agreed to establish an official dialogue channel and alternate between Beijing and Moscow to hold deputy foreign minister-level special envoy political consultations on how to normalize the relations between the two countries. In September, Hu Yaobang mentioned in his report to the 12th National Congress of the Communist Party of China that as long as the Soviet Union takes practical steps to remove the security threat to China, Sino-Soviet relations might be normalized. Regardless of the state of Sino-Soviet relations, China will maintain and develop the friendship between the peoples of the two countries. This positively responded to the statements by Soviet leaders about their policy towards China. In October, the two countries resumed political dialogue and held the first deputy foreign minister-level consultation. China proposed to eliminate the three major obstacles, namely, withdrawal of troops from Mongolia and the Sino-Soviet border, withdrawal from Afghanistan, and urging Vietnam to stop invading Cambodia and withdraw its troops from Cambodia. These are the keys to normalizing Sino-Soviet relations.



Regrettably, the Soviet Union, under the pretext of not damaging the "interests of a third country", adopted an attitude of non-recognition and refusal to discuss the "three big obstacles." Subsequently, when several Soviet leaders passed away one after another, China sent delegations headed by members of the Central Political Bureau, the Foreign Minister and the Secretaries of the Central Secretariat and the Deputy Prime Minister respectively to attend the funerals in the Soviet Union. Through high-level contact opportunities, they acknowledged Soviet Union's socialist construction efforts, expressed hope for improved Sino-Soviet relations, and encouraged the Soviets to take practical actions towards normalizing Sino-Soviet relations. In December 1984, Soviet Deputy Prime Minister Arkhipov visited China. Sino-Soviet bilateral contact was elevated from the level of Deputy Foreign Minister to that of Deputy Prime Minister, setting up economic, trade, and scientific committees, signing economic and technological cooperation agreements about construction and reconstruction of industrial projects in China, as well as the barter and payment agreement from 1986 to 1990. Bilateral trade increased, border trade was resumed, the scope of cooperation expanded, and bilateral relations visibly improved.

In March 1985, Gorbachev assumed the post of the general secretary of the Communist Party Central Committee of the USSR. In October 1985, Deng Xiaoping sent a message to Gorbachev via visiting Romanian leaders: if the Soviet Union could persuade Vietnam to withdraw from Cambodia, he would agree to meet with Gorbachev. In November, the Soviet side stated that the time was ripe for a top-level meeting between China and the Soviet Union, suggesting a meeting either in the Soviet Far East or China to discuss the normalization of Sino-Soviet relations. In July 1986, in Vladivostok, Gorbachev said that the Soviet Union would withdraw six regiments from Afghanistan by the end of 1986, discuss the withdrawal of "a considerable portion of Soviet troops" from Mongolia, that it could divide the boundary line on the Sino-Soviet Boundary River according to the main navigational channel, and was prepared to hold serious talks on establishing a peaceful neighbourhood at any time and level with China. China cautiously welcomed this, and agreed to resume border negotiations. In September, Deng Xiaoping stated that if the Soviet Union could take a significant step towards removing the three obstacles between China and the Soviet Union, particularly in getting Vietnam to end its invasion of Cambodia and to withdraw its troops, he would agree to meet with Gorbachev anywhere in the Soviet Union.

Owing to improving bilateral relations, in February 1987, Sino-Soviet border negotiations formally resumed. After two rounds of negotiations, there was finally progress after many years of stalemate. From August 27 to September 1, 1988, Vice Foreign Minister Tian Zengpei and Soviet Vice Foreign Minister Rogauchy had a meeting in Beijing specifically on the Cambodia issue, reaching an internal understanding. On September 16, Gorbachev gave a talk in Krasnoyarsk, Siberia, proposing that the Soviet Union "intends to start preparing for a high-level Sino-Soviet meeting". Subsequently, on September 28, Chinese Foreign Minister Qian Qichen and Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze, both attending the 43rd session of the United Nations General Assembly, met in New York. They agreed that discussions on the Cambodia issue should continue. From December 1 to 3, Chinese Foreign Minister Qian Qichen was invited to visit the Soviet Union officially. This was the first official visit of a Chinese Foreign Minister to the Soviet Union since 1957, the main purpose of which was to prepare for a Sino-Soviet summit. From February 1 to 4, 1989, Soviet Foreign Minister Shevardnadze paid a reciprocal visit to China with the same purpose. On February 6, both sides simultaneously announced a statement on the Cambodia issue and the date of Gorbachev's visit to China. The statement pointed out, "Both sides advocate an early, fair, and reasonable political solution to the Cambodia issue, and express their willingness to make efforts to promote the achievement of this goal;" "Both sides believe that Vietnam's withdrawal from Cambodia is an essential part of the political solution to the Cambodia issue."



Both parties noted Vietnam's decision to fully withdraw from Cambodia by the end of September 1989, and hoped that the implementation of this decision would facilitate the negotiation process to resolve other issues related to Cambodia. The two sides also agreed to continue discussions on the resolution of the Cambodian issue. Thus, this resolves one of the "three major obstacles," essentially resolving the Cambodian issue.
The resolution of the other two obstacles among the "three major obstacles" was relatively easy. With regard to the issue of reducing Soviet troops on the Sino-Soviet and Sino-Mongolian borders, in January 1987, the Soviet Union announced that within the next 4 to 6 months, it would withdraw a motorized infantry division and other units from Mongolia. In a speech to the United Nations in December 1988, Gorbachev announced that the Soviet Union would withdraw 75% of its troops from Mongolia within two years. On May 15, 1989, this withdrawal process began. As for the withdrawal from Afghanistan, in a speech in Vladivostok in July 1986, Gorbachev announced that after the Soviet Union withdrew from Afghanistan, it would hold negotiations, under the auspices of the United Nations, with Pakistan, Kabul regime in Afghanistan, and the United States. On April 14, 1988, the four parties signed an agreement on the political solution to the Afghan issue in Geneva. The agreement stated that the Soviet Union would begin to withdraw from Afghanistan on May 15, 1988, and complete the withdrawal within 9 months. Finally, the Soviet troops fully withdrew from Afghanistan before February 15, 1989. Thus, the "three major obstacles" that affected the bilateral relationship were essentially resolved, and the path to Sino-Soviet high-level meetings was eventually cleared.
From May 15 to 18, 1989, at the invitation of Chairman Yang Shangkun, Mikhail Gorbachev, the Chairman of the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet and the General Secretary of the Central Committee of the CPSU, paid an official visit to China. During this visit, Gorbachev held meetings with several Chinese leaders, including State President Yang Shangkun, General Secretary of the CPC Central Committee Zhao Ziyang, and Premier of the State Council Li Peng, but the most crucial conference was the high-level meeting with Deng Xiaoping held on the morning of May 16.
Prior to the meeting, Deng Xiaoping clarified that the theme of the meeting was "ending the past and opening the future," emphasizing that "the normalization of Sino-Soviet relations is based on the five principles of peaceful coexistence as per normal." Based on this, Deng Xiaoping established the guideline for this meeting: not to avoid differences, not to dwell on past grievances, seek common ground, look to the future, and to explore the establishment of new friendly neighborly relations based on the five principles of peaceful coexistence. Through this high-level meeting, the two neighbouring countries, China and the Soviet Union, finally ended decades of abnormality and re-established normal state relations. On the evening of the 16th, General Secretary of the CPC Central Committee Zhao Ziyang met with Gorbachev, signifying that the relationship between the two parties, China and the Soviet Union, was also normalized.
On May 18th, China and the Soviet Union issued a joint communiqué in Beijing, summarizing the consensus reached in this high-level meeting. The communiqué formally confirmed the principle of diplomatic relations between the two countries agreed upon by the highest leaders of the two countries. It was different from the alliance relationship of the 1950s and the confrontational state of the 60s and 70s. It was a normal state relation that neither aligned nor countered against each other nor targeted third countries but fostered neighborly friendship.
3. Development and Expansion of Peripheral Diplomacy and Multilateral Diplomacy
Since the 1980s, with the adjustment of China's diplomatic strategy, while prioritizing the promotion of major foreign country diplomacy, China has also vigorously developed peripheral and multilateral diplomacy and has achieved positive results. From 1983 to 1987, China established diplomatic relations with 10 more countries, reaching a total number of 135 countries. The principal leaders of the Chinese government and the party made friendly visits to 46 countries. Deputy prime minister-level leaders, special envoys of the government, and foreign ministers visited 77 countries. China hosted state heads, government leaders, vice presidents, deputy prime ministers, and foreign ministers from over 90 countries for visits. The leaders of the Chinese and foreign senior parliaments have exchanged visits 113 times. China has participated in 64 international conventions, signed 12 bilateral consular treaties as well as many other business agreements, laying the foundation for friendly cooperation between China and countries around the world.
It is worth noting that there has been a significant improvement in China's relations with neighboring countries.



From 1984 to 1987, our country’s leaders successively visited countries including Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Thailand, Myanmar, and Nepal. Trade and friendly interactions with Mongolia increased, and the two countries signed a new consular treaty. Our country negotiated with Laos to normalize relations and the two countries resumed mutual ambassador deployment. After multiple contacts with Indonesia, the relationship improved and direct trade was resumed.
Looking at the overall situation, the development momentum of our country's external relations is good, and the effect is very obvious:
Firstly, in terms of relationships with neighboring countries. China pays attention to properly handling historical issues with neighboring countries and has made certain adjustments to its policies concerning Southeast Asian countries. It places importance on strictly distinguishing party relations from state relations, which has greatly improved bilateral relations with Southeast Asian countries. At the same time, it also put forward a five-point policy for resolving Sino-Indian border issues, helping Sino-Indian relations to restore high-level mutual visits and border negotiations.
Secondly, in terms of relations with the vast number of developing countries. China emphasizes practical cooperation and proposes the four principles of "equality and mutual benefit, focus on practical results, diverse forms, and common development." This has led to various forms of economic cooperation and has provided deeper economic foundations for our country's relationships with developing countries.
Thirdly, in terms of relationships between China and Western European countries. By the late 1970s, except for Andorra, Liechtenstein, Monaco, and the Vatican, China had established diplomatic relations with all Western European countries. China also specifically proposed accelerating the economic cooperation between China and Western European countries through joint ventures, cooperative development, compensation trade, processing of supplied materials, and sample processing, especially through joint development of oil, coal, and non-ferrous metal resources. From the beginning of the 70s to the early 80s, China signed cooperation agreements with many Western European countries in economics, trade, science and technology, culture, civil aviation, shipping, and other fields. In 1978 and 1979, China also signed trade agreements and textile agreements with the European Communities. Starting from 1980, the European Communities granted China the status of general preferential treatment. During this period, total trade between China and Western Europe increased significantly, and there was a promising start to other forms of economic cooperation. China has introduced some more advanced technologies from Western European countries. China has also started to introduce from Western European countries the funds needed for its modernization construction efforts. The common wish to "develop in peace" has laid a solid foundation for the relationships between China and most Western European countries, and has opened up a wide range of prospects.
After 1983, China's trade volume with Western European countries continued to grow, reaching 9.575 billion U.S. dollars in 1985, an increase of 40.7% compared to 1984, and 11.339 billion U.S. dollars in 1986, an increase of 39.3% compared to 1985, although there was a significant trade deficit on the Chinese side.
Fourthly, in international organizations, China, as one of the five permanent members of the United Nations, actively participates in multilateral diplomacy centered around the United Nations, has acceded to 64 international conventions, and has played an important role in promoting world peace and development. In terms of promoting development, China emphasizes that it is part of the developing country block, making efforts to strengthen its relations with developing countries, and playing a proactive role in promoting North-South dialogue, South-South cooperation, and international economic and technical cooperation. In March 1986, in his Government Work Report at the Fourth Session of the Sixth National People's Congress, Zhao Ziyang explicitly made multilateral diplomacy one of the important contents of China's independent and peaceful foreign policy:
"China adheres to the purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter, supports the work carried out by the United Nations in accordance with the spirit of the Charter, and actively participates in activities promoting world peace and development carried out by the United Nations and its specialized agencies."



China actively participates in a variety of international organizations, carries out proactive multilateral diplomatic activities, and strives to enhance cooperation in various fields among nations. By the end of 1986, China had entered almost every important field of intergovernmental multilateral diplomacy, participating in nearly 400 international organizations and ratifying the accession to 13 international conventions. China has established 11 permanent multilateral diplomatic institutions in various countries, including 10 offices of the United Nations and its specialized agencies in China. At the 39th United Nations General Assembly in 1984, renowned Chinese legal scholar Ni Zhengyu was elected as a judge of the International Court of Justice, ending the history of no persons from the People's Republic of China serving in this significant institution. In November 1986, another Chinese legal scholar was elected as a member of the International Law Commission.

In terms of multilateral economic and technical aid, China actively participates and strives to promote cooperation in various fields. By the end of 1986, China had contracted and effective loans totaling $4.15 billion from the World Bank, of which soft loans accounted for $1.6 billion, or 39%; 41 loan projects were mainly used for education, health, agriculture, transport, hydropower, energy and other fields. China borrowed from the IMF's first credit loan twice in 1981 and 1986, totaling $1.048 billion in special drawing rights. UN Development Program, Population Fund, Children's Fund, and other institutions had promised China over $800 million in grant technical assistance in seven years, arranging approximately 600 projects. Meanwhile, China also made pledges to United Nations economic entities; by the end of 1986, it had donated 25.48 million RMB and 25.51 million USD in convertible currencies. These have played an active role in promoting China's economic construction and enhancing international economic and technical cooperation.

In the 10 years since the reform and opening up, after a new round of adjustment of foreign affairs policies, China's diplomacy began to develop in all directions, and an international and surrounding environment conducive to the modernization and reform has begun to take shape.

IV. Proposing the "One Country, Two Systems" concept, starting the peaceful reunification process

After the Third Plenary Session of the 11th Central Committee of the Party, the Party leadership, with Deng Xiaoping at its core, creatively proposed the scientific concept of "peaceful unification, one country, two systems" based on major changes in the international and domestic situations and in the fundamental interests of the state and the nation, and eventually made it into a basic national policy of our country.

1. The origin of the "One Country, Two Systems" and the peaceful reunification of the motherland scientific concept.

The "One Country, Two Systems" and peaceful unification of the nation's policy is an inheritance and development of the Chinese Communist Party's Taiwan policy since the founding of the People's Republic of China. In 1949, the People's Liberation Army was sweeping all before them; the slogan "Overthrow Chiang Kai-shek and Liberate All of China" soon became a reality. Chiang Kai-shek fled to Taiwan in despair. From then on, the two sides of the Taiwan Strait were unfortunately separated. Mao Zedong and others, facing the separation of mainland China and Taiwan, had always been tirelessly exploring and seeking ways and approaches to reunify the motherland, and proposed a series of Taiwan policies.

From 1949 to 1955, the Chinese Communist Party's policy towards Taiwan can be summarized as "relying solely on military force" to solve the problem. On December 31, 1949, the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China issued "A Letter to the Frontline Soldiers and All Nationals", pointing out that the reactionary rule of imperialism and Kuomintang had been overthrown forever, and the task of 1950 was to liberate Hainan Island, Taiwan and Tibet, and completely annihilate the last remnants of Chiang Kai-shek's group. By May 1950, apart from Tibet, the Chinese mainland had been fully liberated, and the People's Liberation Army was actively preparing for the cross-sea operation to liberate Taiwan with high morale. However, shortly after, the Korean War broke out, the US Seventh Fleet invaded the Taiwan Strait, and military force was used to prevent China from liberating Taiwan. Subsequently, China sent Volunteers to fight in Korea, and the action to liberate Taiwan was temporarily put on hold. After the end of the Korean War, the Chinese government repeatedly reaffirmed its policy of resolving the Taiwan issue by military force.



In 1955, our army crossed the sea for combat and liberated Yijiangshan Island and Dachen Island.
In May 1955, the policy of the Communist Party of China towards Taiwan underwent a new change. On May 13th, Zhou Enlai first proposed at the 15th meeting of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress: there are two possible ways to liberate Taiwan, namely, by war and by peace. The Chinese people are willing to strive for the liberation of Taiwan in a peaceful way under possible conditions. This is not a child's play, it is a solemn promise approved by Mao Zedong. In April 1956, Mao Zedong proposed the policy of "peace is precious", "one family of patriots", "no distinction between earlier and later patriots". On June 28 of the same year, Zhou Enlai conveyed new information to the world at the third meeting of the First National People's Congress: "Our government has repeatedly pointed out: there are two possible ways for the Chinese people to liberate Taiwan, namely, by war and by peace; The Chinese people are willing to strive for the peaceful liberation of Taiwan under possible conditions. Undoubtedly, if Taiwan can be peaceful, then it will be the most beneficial for our country, for all our Chinese people, and for the peace of Asia and the world... Now, on behalf of the government, I formally state: we are willing to negotiate the specific steps and conditions for the peaceful liberation of Taiwan with the Taiwan authorities, and we hope that the Taiwan authorities will send representatives to Beijing or other appropriate places to start such negotiations when they think it is appropriate."
At the same time, the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China also passed a letter to Chiang Kai-shek through Zhan Shizhao in Hong Kong, saying "The tomb of Fenghua remains the same, and the flowers and plants of Xikou are unharmed", hoping to touch Chiang Kai-shek with hometown feelings. On July 16, 1956, Zhou Enlai received Hong Kong reporter Cao Juren in Beijing. This is a mysterious person with a special relationship with the high-level leaders of the Kuomintang and the Communist Party. Zhou Enlai said during the meeting: "The Kuomintang and the Communist Party have cooperated twice. The first cooperation was successful in the Northern Expedition, and the second cooperation was victorious in the anti-Japanese war. These are facts. Why can't we cooperate for a third time? Our relationship with Taiwan is not a surrender, but a dialogue between each other. As long as the political power is unified, everything else can be discussed together."
Mao Zedong personally met with Cao Juren later, which shows Mao Zedong's importance to this matter. During the meeting, Mao Zedong said that if Taiwan unifies with the mainland and lives according to their own lifestyle, the fishes in the water all have regional characteristics. The fish from Maogai cannot survive in other places. Mao Zedong also stated that if Chiang Kai-shek dissolves his relationship with the United States and connects with the mainland, the roots are still his, he can survive, he can do his own thing. His army can be preserved, I do not oppress him to cut troops, do not ask him to simplify the government, let him implement the Three People's Principals. This thinking was summed up by Zhou Enlai as "one principle and four points", that is, Taiwan must unite with the mainland (one principle); after the unification of Taiwan and the mainland, except for the necessity of unifying foreign affairs to the central government, all military and political powers and personnel arrangements are decided by Chiang Kai-shek; All deficiencies in military, political and construction expenses will be allocated by the central government; social reforms in Taiwan can be postponed and resolved through consultation; both parties agree not to send people to disrupt each other's unity (four points). In fact, it also includes the basic idea of "one country, two systems".
However, the Kuomintang did not make a positive response to the peace proposal of the Communist Party of China. On the contrary, it continued to dispatch a large number of troops to Jinmen and Mazu; the United States stepped up its behind-the-scenes activities in an attempt to get the Kuomintang to accept its "cross-strait rule" conspiracy. Under this circumstance, on the one hand, in order to curb the reactionary momentum of the United States and Jiang, and on the other hand, in order to maintain the "contact" between the mainland and Taiwan, Peng, Jin, and Ma through the form of fighting, the Fujian frontline troops of the People's Liberation Army were ordered to "fire all guns" and hit Da, Xiaojinmen and Dadan and Erdan islands in August 1958. But despite this, our government's main policy of liberating by force and striving for peace has not changed. During the "Cultural Revolution", due to the influence of "left" thinking, our government's policy and policy towards Taiwan turned tough, that is, it was in the stage of "continuing to maintain a military confrontation situation and concentrating on waging diplomatic struggles".



2. Preliminary Concept of the Peaceful Unification of the Motherland in the New Era

By the end of the 1970s, due to the relative ease of international tensions, China's diplomacy entered a new phase. China successively normalized relations with the United States and Japan, both of whom acknowledged the People's Republic of China as the only legitimate government of China, and Taiwan as part of China. By 1978, the number of countries that established diplomatic relations with the People's Republic of China increased to 116, while only 23 countries and regions maintained diplomatic relations with Taiwan.

On New Year's Day 1979, the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress issued the "Message to Taiwan Compatriots", marking the Chinese government's full commitment to peaceful unification. The Communist Party of China stated in the "Message to Taiwan Compatriots": "Today, the unification of China is the will of the people and the trend of the times. It's universally recognized that China is one, and the People's Republic of China is the only legitimate government of China. The recent signing of the Sino-Japanese Peace and Friendship Treaty, and the normalization of relations between China and the United States, further demonstrate this unstoppable trend. The country is stable and united as never before, and people of all ethnic groups on the mainland are working together to achieve the great goal of modernization. We eagerly hope for Taiwan's early return to the motherland for common development. Our national leaders have expressed determination to respect Taiwan's current state and the views of all walks of life in Taiwan, and to adopt reasonable and suitable policies and measures to ensure the interests of the Taiwanese people are not compromised."

"The Chinese government has ordered the People's Liberation Army to cease fire on Jinmen and other islands from today. There is still a military stalemate in the Taiwan Strait, which can only create artificial tension. In our view, the first step is to end this military confrontation through negotiations between the government of the People's Republic of China and the authorities in Taiwan, in order to create a necessary premise and safe environment for any level of interaction on both sides."

The "Message to Taiwan Compatriots" not only signifies the Chinese government's full commitment to peaceful unification, but also contains the germination of the idea of "one country, two systems". Shortly after the publication of the "Message to Taiwan Compatriots", Deng Xiaoping explained to relevant American parties during his visit to the US that China wanted to resolve the Taiwan issue peacefully and no longer used the term "liberation of Taiwan". As long as China achieved national unification, "we will respect their current reality and existing system". This marked the first public proposal to resolve the Taiwan issue through "one country, two systems".

On December 6 of the same year, Deng Xiaoping elaborated on the concept of "one country, two systems" while meeting with visiting Japanese Prime Minister Masayoshi Ohira. He said: Regarding Taiwan, our requirements are simple: Taiwan's system, way of life, and civilian relationships with foreign countries, including foreign investments in Taiwan and civilian interactions will remain unchanged. As a local government, Taiwan can have its own defensive and military forces. There is only one condition: Taiwan must be an inseparable part of China. As a local government of China, Taiwan will have full autonomy.

On September 30, 1981, Chairman Ye Jianying of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress stated the nine principles for the peaceful unification of Taiwan.



(1) In order to quickly end the unfortunate situation of the Chinese nation being divided, we suggest that the Chinese Communist Party and the Chinese Nationalist Party hold equal negotiations, implement the third cooperation, and jointly complete the great cause of reunifying the motherland. Both parties can send people to contact each other and fully exchange opinions.
(2) People on both sides of the Taiwan Strait urgently hope for communication, reunion of relatives, expansion of trade, and increased understanding. We propose that both sides jointly facilitate postal service, trade, visits to relatives, tourism, and academic, cultural, and sports exchanges, and reach relevant agreements.
(3) After the country is unified, Taiwan can serve as a special administrative region, enjoy a high degree of autonomy, and retain its army. The central government does not interfere with local affairs in Taiwan.
(4) Taiwan's current social and economic systems remain unchanged, as do its lifestyle and economic and cultural relations with foreign countries. Private property, housing, land, enterprise ownership, legal inheritance rights, and foreign investment are not violated.
(5) Authorities and representatives of all walks of life in Taiwan can assume leadership positions in national political institutions and participate in the management of the country.
(6) When local finances in Taiwan encounter difficulties, the central government can provide discretionary subsidies.
(7) Ethnic people of Taiwan, people from all walks of life who wish to settle in mainland China, are guaranteed proper arrangements, are not discriminated against, and have freedom of movement.
(8) We welcome business people from Taiwan to invest in mainland China, initiate various economic ventures, and protect their legal rights and profits.
(9) Unifying the motherland is everyone's responsibility. We warmly welcome the ethnic people of Taiwan, people from all walks of life, and public groups to provide suggestions through various channels and in various ways to consult on state affairs.
So far, the Chinese Communist Party has in fact outlined the basic content of "one country, two systems".
3. Official proposition of "one country, two systems"
In January 1982, Deng Xiaoping officially proposed the concept of "one country, two systems" in a talk for the first time, pointing out that the nine principles proposed by Ye Jianying are actually "one country, two systems". Later, party and state leaders spoke about "one country, two systems" on different occasions. In September of the same year, Deng Xiaoping said in a conversation with British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher on the issue of Hong Kong that the issue of returning the sovereignty of Hong Kong could be solved by the "one country, two systems" plan. This shows that the principle of "one country, two systems" to solve the issue of reunification of the motherland has been expanded from Taiwan to Hong Kong and Macau.



In December of the same year, at the Fifth Session of the Fifth National People's Congress, the "Constitution of the People's Republic of China" was amended and passed. Considering the special situations of Taiwan, Hong Kong, and Macao, it legally confirmed the policy to establish special administrative regions and maintain the capitalism system in these regions after the sovereignty of Hong Kong and Macao was returned and the unification with Taiwan was achieved. Article 31 of the "Constitution" stipulates: "The state sets up special administrative regions when necessary. The system implemented in the special administrative regions is regulated by the National People's Congress according to the specific situation." This affirms the idea that two different social systems can be implemented within a unified country.

On June 26, 1983, Deng Xiaoping met with visiting guests from the United States - famous Professor Yang Liyu from the University of East West, New Jersey and others. During the meeting, according to the opinions discussed by the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee, Deng Xiaoping detailed the essence and specific ideas of the peaceful reunification policy, targeting some doubts of Taiwan authorities. He said, "The core of the problem is national unity. Peaceful reunification has become the common language of both the Communist Party and the Kuomintang. But it's not about 'I eat you, or you eat me,' but to implement two systems within one country. We will adhere to the principle of peaceful reunification. After the reunification of the motherland, the local government of Taiwan can have its own set of internal policies and independence; the judiciary and the final judgment do not need to go to Beijing; the army is independent; the mainland does not send military and political personnel to Taiwan; Taiwan's party, government, and military systems are all managed by Taiwan itself; the central government should leave quotas for Taiwan. Deng also stated that implementing 'one country, two systems' is to complete the great cause of unification which was not achieved by the predecessors. If the Communist Party and the Kuomintang jointly accomplish this, the history of the Chiang father and son will be better written.

For this meeting and Deng's speech, domestic media did not give special attention at that time. A month later, Yang Liyu published an article in the Hong Kong magazine 'Wide-Angle Mirror,' introducing the situation of the meeting and the main content of Deng's speech. Deng's speech immediately caused a strong response in Hong Kong, Macao, and Taiwan and was widely praised as "Deng's Six Points." The announcement of "Deng's Six Points" marked the complete formation of the "one country, two systems" idea. In May 1984, this scientific concept was officially written into the "Government Work Report" passed by the Second Session of the Sixth National People's Congress, becoming a basic national policy with legal protection.

As for what exactly "one country, two systems" is, Deng Xiaoping answered this question on many different occasions for different audiences. Among them, the most easy-to-understand and easy-to-remember was when he met with the Hong Kong Business Representatives and famous Hong Kong figures such as Zhong Shihe on June 22 and 23, 1984, respectively. He said: "Our policy is to implement 'one country, two systems.' Specifically, within the People's Republic of China, the mainland with a population of one billion implements socialism, while Hong Kong and Taiwan implement capitalism."

"One country, two systems" is a complete scientific concept. Here, the premise is one China. Without this premise, there is no basis for unification. One China refers to the People's Republic of China. Any form of "two Chinas," "one country, two governments," "one China, one Taiwan," "two equivalent political entities," "Republic of China in Taiwan," or "Taiwan as an independent sovereign state," etc., are not allowed.



Under the premise of one China, the main body of the country is socialism. Deng Xiaoping pointed out that the mainstay of China must be socialism. On mainland China, we must resolutely uphold the socialist system. After the founding of the People's Republic of China in 1949, through the joint efforts of the people nationwide, socialism has established a firm foundation on the mainland. Practice has proven and will continue to prove that only socialism can save China, only socialism can develop China. Therefore, we must insist on socialism on the mainland. Under the premise of one China, socialism is implemented on the mainland while capitalism is practiced in Taiwan, Hong Kong, and Macao. In these regions, the existing social and economic systems remain unchanged, the lifestyle remains the same, and the existing laws basically remain the same. Taiwan is even allowed to retain an army. This system will remain unchanged for quite a long time.

After the policy of "one country, two systems" was proposed, it caused a strong reaction both at home and abroad. On August 27, 1984, the Hong Kong-based Ming Pao published an editorial stating that "one country, two systems" is the "basic principle of Marxism today". The Americas Overseas Chinese Daily published an editorial titled "Major Events in the History of International Relations" in 1984, which believed that Hong Kong and mainland China's implementation of "one country, two systems" will have a profound impact on China's unification and world affairs. The Taiwan authorities persistently refused to negotiate with the Chinese Communists and said a lot of things against the great righteousness of the nation on the Hong Kong issue, which resulted in Taiwan losing more hearts among people at home and abroad. It is hoped that the Taiwan authorities will change their ways and conform to the trend of history, otherwise, it will be too late to regret.

4. The “one country, two systems” policy initiates the negotiations on the return of Hong Kong and Macao

Although the concept of "one country, two systems" was mainly proposed to solve the Taiwan problem, it was first successfully used to solve the problems of Hong Kong and Macao.

The Hong Kong issue is a historical issue left over from British colonialists invading China. The Hong Kong region includes three parts: Hong Kong Island, Kowloon, and the New Territories, which have always been Chinese territory. After the Opium War in 1840, Britain forced the Qing government to sign the unequal treaties of the Treaty of Nanking, the Treaty of Beijing and the Convention for the Extension of Hong Kong Territory, and occupied the regions of Hong Kong, Kowloon and the New Territories, reducing Hong Kong to British colonial rule. After the Xinhai Revolution, successive Chinese governments did not recognize these unequal treaties and conducted many negotiations with Britain to recover Hong Kong. On the eve of the founding of New China, due to special internal and external conditions, the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China led by Mao Zedong decided to "temporarily maintain the status quo in Hong Kong". After the founding of the People's Republic of China in 1949, the Chinese government adopted the policy of "long-term planning and full utilization" with regards to Hong Kong, and did not recognize these three unequal treaties imposed on China by imperialism, but considering historical reasons, it temporarily maintained the status quo and waited for the right timing to peacefully resolve the issue through negotiations.

According to the aforementioned unequal treaties, the "New Territories" which occupies 92% of the total area of Hong Kong, and which houses Hong Kong's main energy and industrial sectors, will expire on June 30, 1997. As the deadline for the lease of the "New Territories" approaches, the question of whether the land contract for the "New Territories" can cross "1997" becomes increasingly pressing, causing investors to hesitate. In order to extend the Hong Kong governance period, in March 1979, the British sent Governor MacLehose to visit Beijing to try to ascertain the Chinese government's attitude towards the Hong Kong issue.



During the meeting, Deng Xiaoping pointed out that we have always believed that the sovereignty of Hong Kong belongs to the People's Republic of China, but Hong Kong also has its special status. The stance of the Chinese government does not affect the investment interests of investors. This is why Hong Kong can practice its capitalism, and we can practice our socialism for a relatively long period in the 20th and early 21st centuries.
At the beginning of 1981, Deng Xiaoping proposed that the Hong Kong issue has been put on the agenda, and we must have a clear guideline and attitude. He then directed the establishment of a special group to discuss countermeasures for the Hong Kong issue. In December of the same year, a meeting of the Central Secretariat made the decision to reclaim the sovereignty of Hong Kong on July 1, 1997. In April 1982, Deng Xiaoping clarified the basic position of the Chinese government on the solution of the Hong Kong issue during a meeting with former British Prime Minister Heath, clearly indicating that it was time to consider dealing with the Hong Kong issue.
In June 1982, Deng Xiaoping publicly announced the basic position and principles of the Chinese government on dealing with the Hong Kong issue when meeting with prominent figures in Hong Kong: First, it must reclaim Hong Kong in 1997, restore the exercise of sovereignty, and it cannot be later; Second, under the premise of restoring the exercise of sovereignty, we must maintain the prosperity and stability of Hong Kong. At the same time, the research group established with the approval of the Central Committee went to Hong Kong and formulated twelve policies to solve the Hong Kong issue with "one country, two systems" as the core through investigation and research. The main spirit is to restore sovereignty, unchanged systems, Hong Kong people ruling Hong Kong, and high autonomy. These policies further concretized the guideline to solve the Hong Kong issue in accordance with "one country, two systems", thereby laying the foundation for Sino-British negotiations to resolve the Hong Kong issue.
On September 24, 1982, Deng Xiaoping clearly elaborated the basic position of the Chinese government on the Hong Kong issue during a meeting with visiting British Prime Minister Thatcher: First, the issue of sovereignty is not a negotiable issue. China has no room for maneuver on this issue. China and Britain are negotiating on this premise, discussing the ways and means to solve the Hong Kong issue. Second, after China reclaims Hong Kong in 1997, it will implement policies suitable for Hong Kong. Hong Kong will still practice capitalism. Third, the governments of China and the United Kingdom need to discuss properly how to prevent major fluctuations in Hong Kong from now until 1997.
Based on the principles proposed by Deng Xiaoping, the Sino-British negotiations on the Hong Kong issue officially began. The whole negotiation lasted for two years, roughly divided into two stages: The first stage was from September 1982 to June 1983, during which the two sides initially consulted on some principle and procedural issues, and the Chinese side finally completed the formulation of policies towards Hong Kong; The second stage was from July 1983 to September 1984, during which the two sides conducted substantive negotiations and formed the text of the Sino-British agreement on the Hong Kong issue based on Chinese policies.
In September 1984, China and Britain reached an agreement. On December 19 of the same year, the heads of state of the two countries formally signed the Sino-British Joint Declaration on the Question of Hong Kong in Beijing, declaring: The Government of the People's Republic of China will restore the exercise of sovereignty over Hong Kong on July 1, 1997, and the British government will return Hong Kong to China on the same day. From the date of the Joint Statement taking effect to June 30, 1997, the British Government is responsible for the administration of Hong Kong, and the Chinese Government gives cooperation. The two-year Sino-British negotiations were thus satisfactorily concluded. On May 27, 1985, the two governments exchanged ratifications of the Sino-British Joint Declaration and its three appendices in Beijing. The Joint Declaration thus came into effect. Hong Kong enters the transition period before China restores the exercise of sovereignty.




After the transition period began in Hong Kong, the Chinese government began to formulate the Basic Law for the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (SAR). On April 10, 1985, during the third session of the Sixth People's Congress, while approving the Sino-British Joint Declaration, it was decided to establish a Drafting Committee for the Basic Law of the Hong Kong SAR responsible for the drafting of the Basic Law. On July 1, the Drafting Committee was formally established and started its work. In February 1990, based on extensive consultations and repeated revisions, the Drafting Committee of the Basic Law of the Hong Kong SAR held its ninth plenary session to review the draft Basic Law and submitted it to the National People's Congress for examination and approval. On April 4, the third plenary session of the Seventh People's Congress reviewed and approved the "Basic Law of the People's Republic of China for the Hong Kong SAR" and three annexes: "The Method for the Formation of the Chief Executive of the Hong Kong SAR", "The Method for the Formation of the Legislative Council and Decision-making Procedures of the Hong Kong SAR" and "National Laws Implemented in the Hong Kong SAR", also the regional flag and emblem of the Hong Kong SAR. The cooperation between China and the UK in solving the Hong Kong problem moved relatively smoothly in the 1980s. 

As the Hong Kong SAR transition started, the issue of Macao's return also came onto the agenda. As early as 1974, the Portuguese government declared its abandonment of all overseas colonies, recognizing Macao as not a colony but Chinese territory. In February 1979, Portugal and China established relations and reached an agreement on the issue of Macao. The Portuguese government recognized Macao as China's territory, and both agreed to resolve the issue at an appropriate time through negotiations between their governments. 

In the fall of 1984, when the governments of China and the UK reached an agreement on the Hong Kong issue, the conditions for resolving the Macao issue through negotiations between China and Portugal matured. On October 6th of the same year, Deng Xiaoping, in meeting with the well-known Macao figure, Ma Wanqi, further articulated the principle for resolving the Macao issue. It would follow the same principle used to solve the Hong Kong issue, known as "One Country, Two Systems", "Macau People Ruling Macau", unchanged for 50 years. In June 1986, the governments of China and Portugal began negotiations on the issue of Macao. On April 13, 1987, the Heads of Government of China and Portugal officially signed the "Sino-Portuguese Joint Declaration on the Question of Macao" in Beijing. The declaration announced that the Macao region is Chinese territory, and the People's Republic of China will resume sovereignty over Macao on December 20, 1999. On January 15, 1988, representatives of the two governments exchanged the ratifications of the joint declaration in Beijing, marking the official transition period for Macao's return. 

Chapter Five: The Theory of the Primary Stage of Socialism, and the Proposition of the "Three-Step" Strategy

1. The Proposition of the Theory of the Primary Stage of Socialism and the Establishment of the Party's Basic Guidelines

Between the 12th National Party Congress and the 13th National Party Congress, under the guidance of the spirit of the 12th Party Congress, the entire Party and all the people of the country strived to create a new situation in modern Socialist construction. The Party's basic guidelines for the primary stage were officially established at the successful 13th Party Congress in 1987, characterized by certain progress and exploration. 

1. The Preparation and Convening of the 13th Party Congress

On October 25, 1987, the 13th National Party Congress of the Communist Party of China was grandly held at the Great Hall of the People. The decision to hold the 13th Party Congress was made on September 1986 during the sixth plenary session of the 12th Party Congress. Afterwards, the Party Central Committee began preparations for the 13th Party Congress. The preparations for the 13th Party Congress were mainly carried out in two areas:

First, the election of delegates to attend the Congress...



According to the resolutions of the sixth Plenary Session of the 12th Central Committee, the number of delegates to the 13th National Congress of the Communist Party is 1950. The Central authorities require that the composition of the delegates be diverse. There should be a reasonable proportion of minority ethnic party members and female party members. Special attention should be given to electing a certain number of young and middle-aged party members who have made outstanding achievements in socialist modernization and various reforms. 
Through democratic elections, 1936 representatives with wide representation were elected. Among them, officials at all levels accounted for 75.7%, personnel in economics, science and technology, cultural education, sports and health accounted for 18.9%, renowned model workers and war heroes accounted for 5.4%. Women accounted for 14.9%. Minorities accounted for 10.8%. Those with a college degree or above accounted for 59.5%. Among the delegates, party members who joined the party from the early stages of the party's founding to the liberation war accounted for a certain proportion, with the majority joining the party after the establishment of the People's Republic of China. The representatives include veteran proletarian revolutionaries as well as vibrant and outstanding young and middle-aged party members, 58.8% of whom are under 55 years old. 
Second is the preparation of conference documents. The Central Party established a drafting group for the political report. The whole drafting work was carried out under the care and guidance of Deng Xiaoping. 
On March 21, 1987, Zhao Ziyang, then head of the drafting group, submitted a written report and request to Deng Xiaoping on the concept of drafting the outline of the 13th Congress report, and proposed a preliminary idea for drafting the political report. The report intends to write seven sections: (1) Discussing the historical changes that have occurred in our country since the Third Plenary Session, including since the 12th Congress. (2) Discuss that the route since the Third Plenary Session is a Marxist route that stems from the national conditions of our country. Emphasizing that our country is in the initial stage of socialism, this is the basic reason why we must adopt such policies and not adopt other policies. (3) The resulting economic development strategy. (4) The resulting task of developing a socialist commodity economy, and the direction of economic system reform in our country. (5) The resulting task of building a socialist democratic politics, and the principles of political system reform in our country. (6) The resulting tasks of strengthening and improving the leadership of the Party, including the leadership system of the ruling party, intra-party democracy, and supervision of the Party's leaders, the Party's cadres, and the Party's atmosphere. (7) The necessity to avoid "left" and right deviations in theoretical and ideological guidance originates from this, emphasizing that the two basic points of the route since the Third Plenary Session are to adhere to the four basic principles and persist in reform and opening up for invigoration, and pointing out that creative theoretical exploration must be carried out in new practices.
The request also proposed that the political report to the 13th National Congress intends to base its argument on the initial stage of socialism. Why take the theory of the initial stage of socialism as the basis for argumentation? The request said: Affirming that China is in the initial stage of socialism, one is to clearly state that we are socialists, we cannot go back to capitalism, and full Westernization is harmful to the country and the people; the second is to clearly point out that we are socialists in the initial stage, we can only progress step by step, and we cannot be impatient for success, nor can we be "impatient for purity".



It seems that based on the argument of the primary stage of socialism, it is possible to clarify the important issue of having to avoid both "left" and right inclinations, and to clarify the nature and basis of our reforms. If this could be done, it would be beneficial to unify our party's internal and external understanding, and it would also be beneficial for foreigners to understand the long-term stability of our policies. The request was made as follows: If you agree, the drafting of the report will be prepared along this line of thinking, and a rough draft is expected to be available in early May, for refinement until July, to be presented for central consideration in Beidaihe. If not, please instruct!
Four days later, Deng Xiaoping note: "This design is good."

On November 16, 1987, Deng Xiaoping said in a meeting with Japanese Socialist Party leader Doi Takako: Our party's 13th congress report is a collective creation that concentrated the wisdom of thousands of people and many contents are not proposed by me. Of course, it also includes my views and opinion, but most of it is the collective’s opinion.

After the draft of the 13th Political Report came out, the CCP Central Committee invited leaders of all democratic parties, related group leaders, some non-partisan patriots, intellectuals outside the party, and people of ethnic religions for a week-long seminar to solicit everyone's opinions on the draft of the 13th Political Report of the CCP. At the meeting, people from all walks of life spoke freely, expressing their own views, and proposed many valuable revision suggestions and suggestions.

On October 20, 1987, the 7th Plenary Session of the 12th Central Committee of the Communist Party of China discussed and passed the report of the Central Committee to the 13th National Congress of the Party, and discussed and passed the "Amendment to Some Articles of the Constitution of the Communist Party of China". They unanimously agreed to submit these two documents for review to the 13th National Congress of the Party.

At this point, the preparations for the 13th National Congress of the Communist Party of China were fully completed.

On the morning of October 25, the 13th National Congress of the Party was opened at the Great Hall of the People.

Carrying the heavy responsibility of the entire party's 46 million members, with red conference badges on themselves, the delegates happily came to the Great Hall of the People to attend the opening ceremony of the conference. They included the older generation of proletarian revolutionaries, and also outstanding middle-aged and young people who have contributed to the reform and opening up. Deputy chairmen of the NPC Standing Committee outside the party, deputy chairpersons of the CPPCC outside the party, and leaders of all democratic parties and the All-China Federation of Industry and Commerce and non-party patriots; people from ethnic minorities and the religious community were invited as guests to attend the opening ceremony and seated on the podium. Some members of the 12th Central Committee, members of the Central Advisory Committee, members of the Central Discipline Inspection Commission, some old comrades in the party, and other relevant personnel inside the party attended the meeting.

Deng Xiaoping presided over the conference and announced the opening of the conference. Zhao Ziyang made a political report on behalf of the 12th Central Committee.

The political report is divided into seven parts: (1) Historical achievements and the tasks of this congress; (2) The primary stage of socialism and the party's basic line; (3) On the strategy of economic development; (4) On the reform of the economic system; (5) On the reform of the political system; (6) Strengthening the construction of the party in the reform and opening up; (7) Striving for a new victory of Marxism in China.

The report clearly proposes and explains the theory of the socialist stage, that is: first, our society is already a socialist society...



We must adhere to and not depart from socialism. Secondly, our socialist society is still in its initial stage. We must start from this reality and not surpass this stage. The initial stage of socialism in our country does not broadly refer to the initial stage that every country will experience when entering socialism, but specifically refers to the specific stage that our country must inevitably experience when building socialism under the conditions of lagging productivity and underdeveloped commodity economy. This stage requires at least a hundred years.

The report, based on the theory of the initial stage of socialism, has formulated the party's basic line in this stage, that is, to lead and unite the people of all ethnic groups in the country, focus on economic construction, adhere to the four basic principles, adhere to reform and opening up, self-reliance, and hard work, and strive to build our country into a rich, strong, democratic, and civilized socialist modern country.

The report summarized the 12 basic points of the theory of socialism with Chinese characteristics, namely: free the mind, seek truth from facts, regard practice as the only criterion for testing the truth; the construction of socialism must depend on the national conditions of the country and find its own path; To build socialism under backward economic and cultural conditions, there must be a very long initial stage; the fundamental task of socialist society is to develop productive forces and focus on modernization;

The socialist economy is a planned commodity economy; reform is an important driving force for the development of socialist society, and opening up to the outside world is a necessary condition for achieving socialist modernization; socialist democratic politics and socialist spiritual civilization are important characteristics of socialism; 

The basic complement of adhering to the four basic principles and adhering to the general policy of reform and opening up cannot be lacking; the unification of the country is achieved with "one country, two systems"; the style of the ruling party affects the life and death of the party; the principle of independence, complete equality, mutual respect, and non-interference in internal affairs is for the development of relations with foreign communist parties and other parties;

Peace and development are the themes of the contemporary world. The report officially formulated the "three-step" economic development strategy. The first step is to double the gross national product from 1980 and solve the problem of providing sufficient food and clothing for the people; 

The second step is to double the gross national product again by the end of the 20th century, and the people's living standards will reach a well-off level; the third step is to reach the level of moderately developed countries in terms of per capita gross national product by the mid-21st century, people's lives are relatively affluent, and modernization is basically achieved.

The report also formulated an action program to accelerate economic and political system reforms, and officially put political system reforms on the entire party's agenda. Regarding economic system reform, focusing on the central link of transforming enterprise operating mechanisms, carry out phased reforms of system matching in areas such as planning, investment, prices, finance, banking, and foreign trade, and gradually establish the basic framework of a new system of planned commodity economy. 

The reform of the political system aims to eliminate the disadvantages and build Chinese characteristics of socialist democracy. The long-term goal of the reform is to establish a highly democratic, legally sound, efficient, and vibrant socialist political system. 

The short-term goal of political system reform is to establish a leadership system that is conducive to improving efficiency, enhancing vitality and mobilizing the enthusiasm of all sides. In addition, the report also clearly put forward the productivity standard, that is, whether it is conducive to liberating and developing the social productive forces as the standard for testing reform measures and other party guidelines and policies.

After eight days of tense and orderly work, the 13th National Congress of the Party successfully completed all tasks. The congress elected the 13th Central Committee, the 2nd Central Advisory Committee, and the Central Disciplinary Inspection Committee. The congress passed relevant resolutions and closed in democratic and united atmosphere on November 1.

The congress called on all comrades in the party to adhere to the party's basic line and firmly grasp the "one center and two basic points" stipulated by this basic line under the great banner of socialism with Chinese characteristics and under the leadership of the 13th Central Committee. We must strengthen the unity of the party and strengthen the close ties between the party and the people of the whole country, work with one heart and one mind, boost morale, work hard, forge ahead, and strive to achieve the grand goal of socialist modernization.



The Congress emphasized that the entire Party needs to resolutely implement the basic line of the Party in the primary stage of socialism as set by the Congress, seriously implement all the resolutions passed by the Congress, strive to complete all the tasks put forward by the Congress, and lead people of all ethnic groups to continue to move forward along the path of socialism with Chinese characteristics. During the Congress, many political parties and organizations from other countries sent congratulatory messages to the Congress through calls. Representatives of various domestic democratic parties and non-partisan patriots also extended their congratulations to the Congress. The Presidium of the Congress would like to express their gratitude to them.

On November 2, the first plenary session of the 13th CCP Central Committee was held. The session elected Wan Li, Tian Jiyun, Qiao Shi, Jiang Zemin, Li Peng, Li Tieying, Li Ruihuan, Li Ximing, Yang Rudai, Yang Shangkun, Wu Xueqian, Song Ping, Zhao Ziyang, Hu Qili, Hu Yaobang, Yao Yilin, Qin Jiwei as members of the Central Political Bureau. The Central Political Bureau alternate members elected Ding Guangen. Zhao Ziyang, Li Peng, Qiao Shi, Hu Qili, Yao Yilin were elected as members of the Standing Committee of the Central Political Bureau. Zhao Ziyang was elected as the General Secretary of the Central Committee. The Secretaries of the Central Secretariat were Hu Qili, Qiao Shi, Rui Xingwen, Yan Mingfu, with Wen Jiabao as the alternate secretary. It was decided that Deng Xiaoping would serve as Chairman of the Central Military Commission, Zhao Ziyang as First Vice Chairman, and Yang Shangkun as Standing Vice Chairman. The plenum approved Chen Yun as the director of the Central Advisory Committee, and Qiao Shi as the secretary of the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection.  

What is noteworthy is that a large number of relatively young comrades were elected to the new Central Committee, while a group of elderly proletarian revolutionaries with remarkable contributions and high moral esteem bowed out. This is a vivid demonstration of the prosperous development of our party and the succession of talents, a reliable guarantee for the continuous and stable implementation of the correct line of our party.

Compared with the previous central leadership, the average ages of the Central Political Bureau, the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau, and the Central Secretariat have significantly decreased. The average age of the elected members and alternate members of the 12th Central Committee was 59.1 years old, while that of the 13th was 55.2 years old, fully showing the flourishing development of our Party, filled with vitality and succeeding persons. At this Congress, Deng Xiaoping, Li Xiannian, Chen Yun and other old proletarian revolutionaries retired from the Central Committee and the Political Bureau of the Party, playing a very important role in the further rejuvenation of the central leadership and new-old alternation of the leadership.

This Congress was a democratic congress, a united congress, an open congress, and a congress that thoroughly promoted reform and construction career. It was also a congress that made our party more full of vitality and energy.

2. Deepening understanding of the "primary stage of socialism" and its historical significance

The proper understanding of the current historical stage of our society is the primary issue in building socialism with Chinese characteristics and is the fundamental basis for us to formulate and implement the correct line and policy.

To build socialism with Chinese characteristics, the most important issue, of course, is to understand China's national conditions. On this issue, both the Soviet Union and our own China have profound lessons.

The Soviet Union was the first socialist country in the world. Its greatest achievement lies in turning socialism from theory into reality. But in a country like the Soviet Union, how to build socialism did not provide us with ready-made successful experiences. The situation in the Soviet Union at that time was extremely severe. Domestic hostile forces tried to overthrow the Soviet power, and international enemies tried to strangle the unsteady socialist system. Faced with internal and external pressures, the Soviet people, under the leadership of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, overcame various difficulties, and socialism was not only firmly established but also flourished. Lenin, based on practice, put forward: From the point of view of communism, denying the party means skipping from the eve of the capitalist collapse (in Germany) to the highest stage of communism instead of entering its lower and intermediate stages. We, in Russia (three years after the overthrow of the bourgeoisie), just started the transition from capitalism to socialism, which is the initial stage leading towards communism.



Twelve years after Lenin's death, in 1936, Stalin declared: "Our Soviet society has essentially achieved socialism, established the socialist system, that is, realized the system of the first or lower stage of socialism, also known as communism, by Marxists." Three years later, Stalin declared: "We are moving towards communism." This approach was clearly impulsive. After Stalin's death, Khrushchev pushed the impetuous thought of rushing towards communism to the extreme. Following the Twenty-First Congress of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, which proposed a comprehensive acceleration of communist construction, Khrushchev proposed at the Twenty-Second Congress of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union in 1961 that the Soviet Union should basically build a communist society within 20 years. The new program passed by the Twenty-Second Congress was: "Our generation will live under the communist system." When boasting of the significance of this program, Khrushchev said, "The three programs of the CPSU are like a three-stage rocket. The first stage took us away from the capitalist world, the second stage elevated it to socialism, and the task of the third stage is to introduce communism."

Twenty years have passed, the plan has completely fallen through, becoming a bubble, which demonstrates that the Soviet Union's estimation of the stages of social development does not correspond to reality. It was not until the 1980s that the Soviet Union and some Eastern European countries began to reassess the stage of social development in which they found themselves.

The Chinese Communist Party also took a detour in understanding the historical stage China is in.

After 28 years of effort, the Chinese Communist Party achieved a great victory in the New Democratic Revolution, and in a relatively short period of time, it achieved the recovery of the national economy and the implementation of socialist reform, establishing a socialist system in China. Mao Zedong analyzed China's national conditions at the Seventh Plenary Session of the Eighth Congress as follows: "The proportion of industry and agriculture in the national economy, on a national scale, before the Anti-Japanese War, was about 10% of modern industry and about 90% of agriculture and handicrafts. This is a reflection of the oppression of China by the imperialist system and the feudal system, and it also represents the economic manifestation of the semi-colonial and semi-feudal social traits of old China. It is also the basic starting point during the Chinese revolution and for a considerable period after the victory of the revolution. From this point, a series of strategic, tactical, and policy issues of our party emerged.”

Based on this analysis, Mao Zedong proposed the major economic policies that our party should implement after the Second Plenary Session of the Seventh Congress. After the founding of new China, during the process of socialist transformation, our party adjusted some of the policies proposed by the Seventh Central Committee's Second Plenary Session according to the new situation, and the basic spirit was implemented. However, after the basic completion of the socialist transformation, we relaxed our investigation and analysis of the new national conditions. As for the stage of development the Chinese society was in at that time, it should have started from the 10% of modern industry and 90% of agriculture and handicrafts, and come to the appropriate conclusion. Unfortunately, we were overexcited by the victory of socialist transformation, got detached from the reality, and took a circuitous route.

The Third Plenary Session of the Eleventh Central Committee marked a significant turning point in China's history. With the unfolding of the rectifying of past wrongs, the party touched upon the issue of the stage of social development China is in while analyzing the complex path it has taken since the founding of the new China and the reasons for developmental mistakes.  In his speech at the 30th National Day celebration in 1979, Ye Jianying pointed out, "Compared to the capitalist system that has been around for three to four hundred years, socialism is still in its infancy..."



"Our country is still a developing socialist country." This already contains the thought of the primary stage. The Resolution on Certain Historical Issues of the Party Since the Founding of the PRC, adopted at the Sixth Plenum of the Eleventh Central Committee in 1981, for the first time clearly pointed out: Our socialist system is still in its primary stage, but undoubtedly, our country has established the socialist system and has entered socialist society. Any views denying this basic fact are wrong.

The political report of the Twelfth National Congress of the Party in 1982 states: Our socialist society is still in its early stage of development, and our material civilization is not developed.

the Resolution on the Guideline for the Construction of Socialist Spiritual Civilization adopted at the Sixth Plenary Session of the Twelfth Central Committee of the Communist Party of China in 1986 wrote: Our country is still in the primary stage of socialism. We must adopt distribution according to work, develop socialist commodity economy and competition, and for a considerably long period of history, we have to develop various economic components under the premise of public ownership, and under the goal of common prosperity, encourage some people to become rich first.

These three important documents all proposed the significant theoretical proposition that our country is in the "primary stage of socialism", and made clear and scientific elaborations, but they did not elaborate.

The political report of the Thirteenth National Congress of the Party first systematically elaborated this issue of great theoretical and practical significance from a theoretical perspective, and used it as the basis for the entire report. It affirmed that our country is indeed in the primary stage of socialism and clarified two meanings: first, our society is already a socialist society. We must adhere to socialism. Second, our socialist society is still in its primary stage.

The primary stage of socialism in our country does not only refer to the first or earliest stage in the general sense of development sequence, but mainly refers to a special development stage in terms of the maturity of socialist society in a country like ours where the economy and culture are underdeveloped. Its significance has two layers: the first, from the perspective of social nature; our country is already a socialist society, not a transition period, so we must adhere to the socialist direction and path, and we cannot regress to practice capitalism, pursue "full Westernization", supplement "capitalist lessons", and any regression and denial of the socialist path are incompatible with the socialist nature; the second, from the perspective of development level, the maturity of our socialist society is still very low, only in the primary stage, not a higher stage, so we must start from this most basic and important national conditions and objective reality, carry out construction and reform, and cannot make excessive demands, hurry, and rush to success, do things that surpass the stage. The proposition of the primary stage of socialism has drawn a clear line between the transition period and the higher stage of socialism, placing our party's line, principle, and policy on a scientific basis, thus avoiding the "left" error of exceeding the stage in the past.

Our country is in the primary stage of socialism, which is determined by the level of productivity in our country. The political report of the Thirteenth National Congress analyzed this: On the one hand, the socialist economic system based on public ownership of production materials, the socialist political system of people's democratic dictatorship and the guiding position of Marxism in the ideological field have been established; the exploitation system and exploiting classes have been eliminated; the national economic strength has greatly increased; the education, science and culture have made considerable development. On the other hand, we have a large population, a weak foundation, and the per capita GDP still ranks behind in the world. The prominent picture is: over 1 billion people, of which 800 million are in rural areas, basically still using manual means to make a living; a part of modernized industry, coexists with an industry that lags behind the modern level by decades or even hundreds of years; a part of economically developed regions, coexists with areas that are undeveloped and poor; a small amount of science and technology at the world’s advanced level, coexists with a generally low level of science and technology, and illiteracy or semi-illiteracy accounts for nearly one quarter.



The inadequacies in productive forces dictate the state of production relationships; the necessary degree of socialization of production for the development of socialist public ownership is rather low. The economy of goods and the domestic market are far from mature, with natural economies and semi-natural economies occupying a significant proportion, and the socialist economic system is not yet mature. Regarding the superstructure, the socio-economic conditions necessary for creating a highly democratic socialist political structure are heavily insufficient. Feudal, capitalist decadent thinking, and the habits of small scale production still have a widespread influence on society, often infiltrating the ranks of the party and civil servants. This situation indicates that we are still far from surpassing the early stage of socialism.

The early stage of socialism in our country is a relatively long historical phase. As pointed out in the Thirteenth Party Congress report, our country, from the completion of the socialist transformation of private ownership of means of production in the 1950s to finally realizing socialist modernization, will require at least a century. All of this time belongs to the early stage of socialism.

In this phase, the main contradiction we face is between the ever-growing material and cultural needs of people and the lagging social production. Therefore, to resolve this main contradiction, we must prioritize the liberation and development of productive forces while always centering around economic construction.

The early stage of socialism in our country is not a generic term but a specific one. The so-called specific term implies that it's not some initial stage every country goes through after entering a socialist society. Developed capitalist countries and moderately developed capitalist countries don't need to go through this "early stage" when they transition to a socialist society. The specific term refers to the particular historical phase that economically and culturally underdeveloped countries like ours must experience after entering a socialist society, which is the "early stage". Then, what is the early stage of socialism in our country like? The Thirteenth Party Congress report answers:

In general, the early stage of socialism in our country is a phase of gradually eliminating poverty and backwardness. It transforms from an agricultural country, where the majority of the population works in agriculture using manual labor, to a modern industrial nation with a majority non-agricultural population. It transitions from a state with a significant proportion of natural and semi-natural economies to a highly developed commodity economy. It's a phase of reform and exploration, establishing and developing a vibrant socialist system of economy, politics, and culture. It's a stage of achieving the great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation through efforts from the entire population and hard pioneering work.

Starting from the actual conditions of the early stage of socialism, we must concentrate on modernization construction; insist on comprehensive reform; adhere to openness towards the outside world; prioritize public ownership while vigorously developing the commodity economy; build democratic politics based on stability and unity; and develop a civilized society guided by Marxist doctrine.

The Chinese Communist Party's judgment that our country is in the early stage of socialism has profound theoretical and practical importance. Theoretically, it enriches and develops Marxist doctrine on the stages of socialist development, providing a scientific basis for our Party to establish correct policies. Practically, it guides the reform, openness, and construction efforts of our country along the track of scientific socialism, helping us defend against (evade) both "leftist" and rightist errors. If we fail to recognize socialism's presence in our country, we may commit a rightist error. If we don't acknowledge that our country is in the early stage of socialism, we may make a "leftist" error. Both left and right understandings stem from a detachment from reality, disregard for national conditions, and a failure to recognize that our country is in the early stage of socialism.

The 13th Political Report gave a profound explanation of "One Center, Two Basic Points" on the basis that our country is in the early stage of socialism. It proposed the basic line of the Party in the primary stage of socialism, that is, "Leading and uniting the people of all ethnic groups across the country, with economic construction at the center, adhering to the four basic principles, insisting on reform and opening up, self-reliance, hard work, and striving to build our country into a rich, strong, democratic, civilized modern socialist country."



This fundamental route was hard-fought.
The fundamental or general route refers to the party's overall guiding principle in a major historical stage. All other guidelines and policies must be subordinated and serve this fundamental or general route. Because the fundamental route is of great importance, the top leaders of the party attach great importance to its formulation.
During the period of the democratic revolution, the first generation of leadership of the CCP, led by Mao Zedong, formulated the correct general route, that is: "The proletariat-led, people's mass, revolution against imperialism, feudalism, and bureaucratic capitalism."
Under the guidance of this general route, the Communist Party of China led the people of the whole country to drive away the Japanese invaders, defeat Chiang Kai-shek, and establish New China.
The establishment of the People's Republic of China marked the end of the New Democracy Revolution and also marked the beginning of the socialist revolution. During this period, our country was in the transition from new democracy to socialism. The party's general route during the transition period was: "From the founding of the People's Republic of China to the completion of the socialist transformation, this is a transition period. The Party's general line and overall task during this transition period are to gradually achieve the socialist industrialization of the country over a long period of time, and to gradually carry out the socialist transformation of the country's agriculture, handicraft industry and capitalist industry and commerce." Practice has proved that this general route is correct. Through the implementation of this general route, our socialist system has been established and our socialist industrialization has made gratifying strides.
After our country entered socialism, our party proposed the general line of "building socialism with full vigor, striving for the best, and building socialism in a more, faster, better, and more economical way." Regarding this general line, the "Resolution on Certain Historical Issues" passed in 1981 made the following assessment: "The general line of socialist construction and its basic points passed at the Eighth Congress of the Party in 1958 have their merits in reflecting the general desire of the masses to change the backward economic and cultural conditions of our country. Its downside is ignoring the objective economic laws." This assessment is based on actual facts. By implementing this general route, China witnessed the "Great Leap Forward" that was eager to develop productive forces, and the "collectivization of people", which was eager to change production relations and transition. The result was counterproductive and violated economic laws and was punished by the laws. After this, while we made some achievements, we also made mistakes and fell behind, widening our gap with developed countries and affecting the performance of socialism's superiority.
During the "Cultural Revolution", the Ninth Congress of the Party put forward the party's basic line in the entire historical stage of socialism, which is a "left" erroneous line that "takes class struggle as the guideline". It is not a "lifeline" but a "death line" that leads the country to collapse and turmoil.
History serves as a mirror for knowing the rise and fall.



Throughout history, the party has taken several basic or overall lines of direction, learning from both success and failure. In the face of history, the party and its leaders reflect. Why does one path lead to victory while another leads to failure? Where does the cause lie? The results of these reflections undoubtedly have significant implications for the formation of the party’s basic line in the primary stage of socialism. Its direct outcome is to gradually shape the party's basic line in the primary stage of socialism based on the summarization of past historical experience.

18 years before the concept of the "primary stage of socialism" was proposed, Zhou Enlai laid the earliest foundation for this basic line in his December 1964 speech at the first session of the Third National People's Congress, where he proposed achieving four modernizations and adopting a two-step approach. Zhou Enlai pointed out in his report: The primary task for future national economic development, overall, is to turn our country into a modern socialist power with advanced agriculture, industry, national defense and science and technology, catching up with and surpassing the world's advanced level within a not too distant historical period. To accomplish this grand historical mission, China's national economic development can be considered in two steps starting from the third Five-Year Plan: First, establish a relatively complete independent industrial and national economic system. Second, fully modernize agriculture, industry, national defense, and science and technology, making China's economy a world leader.

This idea couldn't be realized due to "left" errors, but its historical status cannot be underestimated. The third plenary session of the 11th Central Committee of the Communist Party of China, held at the end of 1978, re-established the correct ideological line, negated the past "left" line that focused on class struggle, insisted on shifting the focus to economic construction, and formulated a basic policy for reform and opening up, paving a solid foundation for the formation of the party's basic line in the primary stage of socialism.

After the third plenary session of the 11th Central Committee, the party emphasized repeatedly the importance of focusing on economic construction, upholding the four basic principles, and implementing reform and opening up. After the task of rectification was successfully completed, the 12th Party Congress proposed the party's overarching mission in the new historical period: uniting people of all ethnic groups across the country, relying on our own efforts, striving hard, gradually modernizing industry, agriculture, national defense and science and technology, and building China into a highly civilized and highly democratic socialist country.

In September 1986, the Sixth Plenary Session of the 12th CPC Central Committee proposed the overall layout for the construction of socialist modernization: focusing on economic construction, unswervingly advancing economic system reform, unswervingly pushing forward political system reform, unswervingly strengthening the construction of spiritual civilization, and making these aspects complement and promote each other. This “overall layout” has incorporated the main content of the basic line summarized by the 13th National Congress, but it's still incomplete.

On January 28, 1987, the CPC Central Committee pointed out in the “Notice on Several Issues in the Current Opposing Bourgeois Liberalization”: The line since the third plenary session of the 11th Central Committee is to build socialism with Chinese characteristics based on China's actual conditions. This line has two fundamentals: one is to adhere to the four basic principles, and the other is to adhere to reform, opening up and invigoration. The proposal for these “two fundamentals” served as the most direct preparation for the final formation of the basic line.

The 13th National Congress of the Party took place under these conditions and, on the basis of proposing the theory of the primary stage of socialism, explicitly proposed and summarized the Party's basic line during the primary stage of socialism.

The key point of the party's basic line in the primary stage of socialism is: "focusing on economic construction, upholding the four basic principles, upholding reform and opening up", namely "one center, two basic points."

"one center, two basic points" are infused with Deng Xiaoping's tireless efforts and encapsulate Deng Xiaoping's strategy for the nation's prosperity.



At the Third Plenary Session of the 11th Central Committee, under the leadership of Deng Xiaoping, a major shift of the strategic center was implemented, and the basic national policy of reform and opening up was determined. Since then, this propelled the gigantic ship of China towards a new territory and a new era. However, Deng Xiaoping felt that something was still missing. Thus during the theoretical work conference in early 1979, Deng timely proposed to adhere to the Four Basic Principles. Afterwards, Deng Xiaoping always held onto the central link of economic construction without letting go, focusing on two basic points to promote the sustained and healthy development of Chinese society. When someone summarized the party's basic line in the primary stage of socialism as "one central focus, two basic points", Deng Xiaoping expressed appreciation, believing it was a good summary.

"One central focus, two basic points" are interrelated, interdependent and indispensable. 
"Focusing on economic construction" permeates the whole process of fulfilling the fundamental task of socialism and is the redline for the development of social productive forces. It not only reveals and stipulates the central place of economic construction in the party and national work, but also dictates that other tasks must defer and serve the focus on economic construction, to ensure the development of social productive forces. Why must we keep focusing on economic construction? This is because the fundamental task of socialism is to develop productive forces, particularly as our socialist system is not born from advanced capitalist society, nor from societies like Russia where capitalism had a considerable development, but from semi-colonial, semi-feudal societies, with thin foundation and unsatisfactory basis. Even though great achievements have been made in developing productive forces since the founding of New China, it is still far behind developed countries. Hence it is necessary to focus on economic construction, modernize socialism, and focus efforts on developing productive forces. "Stick to reform and opening up" and "adhere to the Four Basic Principles" are two basic points that revolve around the central theme of economic construction, which is also about the central task of developing productive forces. The basic characteristics of the primary stage of socialism are: underdeveloped productive forces, immature relations of production, and imperfect superstructure. Therefore, adherence to reform is essential. Reform and opening up is the only way for China to develop social productive forces and realize socialist modernization. The Four Basic Principles are the fundamental guarantee for the development of social productive forces and socialist modernization. The "two basic points" also uphold the direction of socialism and the perfection and development of the socialist system.

"One central focus, two basic points" also mutually restrict and promote each other. With the objective requirements for the development of productive forces as the benchmark, the center focuses on developing the productive forces, and the "two basic points" act like two wings of a machine, balancing the main body of the machine at the center. The two basic points mutually restrict themselves while being restricted by the "one center".

The basic line of the Party in the primary stage of socialism, not only stipulates "one center, two basic points", but also determines our struggle objective. That is to "struggle to build our country into a prosperous, democratic, civilized socialist modern country". Prosperity, democracy, civilization actually encompass the demands in terms of economics, politics, and ideological culture, which is not only a trinity of modernization goals, but also the three important aspects of socialism with Chinese characteristics.



"Wealth and power" are the goals and requirements in the field of social economy. A socialist society must be affluent, not impoverished. The 13th Congress wrote "wealth and power" into the party's struggle objectives for the first time. 

"Democracy" is the goal and requirement of political construction. Socialist democracy is far superior to capitalist democracy in essence. Socialist democracy requires the broad masses of people to participate in state and social management, truly achieving "being the masters of the house".

"Civilization" refers to spiritual civilization, which is the goal and requirement in the field of social thought and culture. Socialist spiritual civilization is an important characteristic of socialism. In order to build socialism with Chinese characteristics, we must eliminate all kinds of ignorance and backwardness left over from the old society. For a long period in the past, our understanding of socialism was not completely clear. We did not formulate a scientific struggle goal suitable for our national conditions, which was an important manifestation of this lack of clarity.

The integrated struggle objectives of wealth and power, democracy, and civilization vividly reflect our new understanding of socialism. This is a major achievement in our re-understanding of China's national conditions and socialism since the Third Plenary Session of the 11th Central Committee.

The Party's basic line in the primary stage of socialism stipulates the forces that rely on achieving the struggle objectives. That is "leading and uniting people of all ethnic groups". Since the basic completion of the socialist transformation of ownership, the exploiting class as a class has been eliminated. Except for a few hostile elements, all ethnic groups across the country under the leadership of the Communist Party are the forces that depend on completing various tasks in the primary stage of socialism.

The Party's basic line in the primary stage of socialism proposes the requirements in terms of mental state for completing various tasks, namely "self-reliance and hard work". What does China rely on to develop? What does China rely on to realize the integrated objectives of wealth, democracy, and civilization? External aid is indeed important. But it is not our base point. Our base point is self-reliance. That is, mainly relying on the strength of the masses themselves and the enthusiasm and creativity of the masses.

The Chinese people have a glorious tradition. They are unyielding in the face of difficulties. It is precisely by relying on this spirit of hard struggle that they have overcome difficulties and won one victory after another.



This spirit was a magic weapon for victory during the revolutionary war years and is equally essential for achieving the integrated goal of prosperity, democracy, and civilization. To accomplish the historical task of realizing the great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation during the initial stage of socialism, it is necessary for people of all ethnic groups in our country to actively participate in the current of reform and construction with a master's attitude. Only in this way can we join the ranks of civilized nations worldwide. 

Second, The Proposal of the "Three-Step" Development Strategy

Starting from 1979, Deng Xiaoping began to design a specific blueprint for China's modernization, which gradually evolved into a "two-step" approach, and by the end of the 20th century, a strategy to "double twice" and achieve a "moderately prosperous level". 

The third plenary session of the 11th Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) took on the historic task of shifting the focus of the whole party's work and the attention of the entire nation to socialist modernization, reiterated the aim to realize four modernizations within the 20th century, and proposed to "correctly solve the specific path, policy, method, and measures to achieve the four modernizations". It can be said that the Third Plenary Session has established the overall goal of the economic development strategy of "achieving four modernizations" and put forward the basic principles to achieve this goal. However, what exactly is the blueprint for the "four modernizations"? Through what kind of process and steps should we achieve it? At that time, it was still rather abstract and broad in understanding. 

1. New Thoughts on China's Modernization Development Strategy

After the Third Plenary Session of the Eleventh Central Committee, the second generation of central leadership with Deng Xiaoping at the core began to seriously contemplate and painstakingly explore how to realize China's modernization. In March 1979, Deng Xiaoping pointed out in his speech on "Upholding Four Basic Principles" that "past democratic revolutions had to suit Chinese conditions and take the path of rural encirclement of cities pioneered by Comrade Mao Zedong. Now in construction, we also need to suit Chinese conditions and carve out a Chinese-style modernization route." He further emphasized that "Chinese-style modernization must start from Chinese characteristics." 

Deng Xiaoping then distilled two crucial features that must be noted for China to realize modernization: one is the thin foundation; the other is the large population and scarce arable land. The two characteristics pointed out by Deng Xiaoping determined that the starting point for China to carry out modernization construction is very low, and hence the time to achieve modernization will be longer. China will have to implement modernization step by step, in phases, based on this low starting point. 

Later, the Political Bureau of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China and the State Council carried out a discussion and study on how China should precisely realize socialist modernization, stating that "we must start from China's national conditions in our modernization efforts". At a central work meeting in April 1979, the national conditions were analyzed, which indicated that we are a large country with more than 900 million people, over 80% of whom are farmers. Despite winning the revolution thirty years ago, our economy is still very backward, and the people's standard of living is low. Our country is poor, and modernization requires a lot of funds, yet the people also want to improve their living conditions, which is a contradiction. Modernization requires fewer people, but we have a large labor force that needs employment, which is another contradiction. We can only under such contradictions, carry out the "four modernizations." This is the realistic situation and the basic starting point that we must consider when we are drawing up our construction blueprint.

Taking China's actual national conditions as the basic starting point, Deng Xiaoping began to construct a detailed blueprint for China's modernization. This is required for modernization construction, and also a natural result of the development of Deng Xiaoping's cognitive logic. On December 6, 1979, during a meeting with the visiting Japanese Prime Minister Masayoshi Ohira, Deng Xiaoping discussed how the blueprint for Chinese-style modernization was conceived. He stated: "The four modernizations we aim to realize are Chinese-style four modernizations. Even by the end of this century, although we have reached a certain goal in our four modernizations, our average national income is still very low. To reach the level of slightly wealthier countries in the Third World, such as an average national income of 1,000 US dollars, we also have to make great efforts."



"Even at that level, we are still lagging behind the West. I can only say that China is still in a state of relative comfort," Deng Xiaoping first contextualizes the goal of Four Modernizations to reach a "$1,000 level", entering a moderately prosperous state. The concepts of "$1,000" and "moderate prosperity" were formed in this conversation. More than a month later, Deng Xiaoping, when talking about his answer to Prime Minister Nakasone's question, said, "This answer is of course not accurate, but it is not casually said." Deng Xiaoping analyzed that we now only have a few hundred dollars. If it reaches $1000, it will increase by 3 times. Singapore and Hong Kong are both over $3000. It is not easy for us to reach that level. Because of the vast population and diverse conditions, it is very different. However, it should be said that if our total production value really reaches an average of $1000 per person, our days will be much better than them, better than their $2000.

If Deng Xiaoping's conversation with Prime Minister Nakasone was the first time he talked to a foreign guest about his vision for the next 20 years, then in his speech on "The Current Situation and Tasks" in January 1980, although it was only a retelling of his conversation with Prime Minister Nakasone, it was the first time he presented his idea to the entire party. He pointed out: The realization of the four modernizations in the Chinese style should be completed in two decades. Therefore, the 1980s are crucial and decisive. This decade lays a good foundation, coupled with the next decade, to achieve the Four Modernizations in the Chinese style in the next 20 years, it will be feasible and truly hopeful.

According to Deng Xiaoping's concept, the Sixth Plenary Session of the Eleventh Central Committee of the Party in June 1981 proposed to "achieve the goal of modernization in stages and steps." In November 1981, the Fourth Session of the Fifth National People's Congress defined the "moderately prosperous level" as the prospect of our country's economic development. The conference believes that the speed of economic development during the "Sixth Five-Year Plan" period cannot be rapid, the speed of the "Seventh Five-Year Plan" is expected to be higher than the "Sixth Five", and the speed of the next decade's development is expected to be even higher. The meeting proposed that efforts should be made to double the total output value of industry and agriculture in 20 years and enable the people's life to reach a moderately prosperous level. By the Twelfth National Congress of the Communist Party of China in September 1982, Deng Xiaoping's "moderately prosperous" level was formally proposed and established as a strategic goal for the whole party and people across the country by the end of the 20th century. The report of the Twelfth National Congress pointed out that from 1981 to the end of the 20th century, the overall goal of our country's economic construction is, under the premise of continuously improving economic efficiency, to strive to double the annual total output value of industry and agriculture nationwide, that is, from 710 billion yuan in 1980 to about 2.8 trillion yuan in 2000, and people's material and cultural life reaches a moderately prosperous level. In order to achieve the 20-year struggle goal, two steps must be taken in strategic deployment, the first ten years are mainly to lay a good foundation, accumulate strength, create conditions, and the next ten years should enter a new period of economic revitalization.

After the goal of realizing "moderate prosperity" in "two steps" by the end of the 20th century was proposed, Deng Xiaoping began to further envision China's economic development goals in the mid-21st century from 1984, thus gradually forming a complete "three steps" economic development strategic target.

"2. The Brewing and Elaboration of the 'Three Steps' Development Strategy

The 'three-step' development strategy was brewing before 1984."



The original proposition was to achieve four modernizations by the end of the 20th century. Later on, the party gradually realized that this task could not be completed quickly by the end of the 20th century, hence the phrase "reaching a moderately prosperous level" was adopted. Although sometimes the phrase "realizing the four modernizations by the end of this century" is still used, its meaning has gradually changed and is no longer used in the sense of completion but rather in stages. Under these circumstances, in September 1982, the 12th National Congress of the Party proposed a goal of doubling. Since only a moderately prosperous level can be achieved by the end of the 20th century, it will take some time to reach the level of modernization. In December 1980, Deng Xiaoping stated in his speech "Implementing Adjusted Guidelines, Ensuring Stability and Unity" that, after reaching a moderately prosperous level, "we must continue to advance and gradually reach a higher degree of modernization." In November 1981, the fourth session of the fifth National People's Congress pointed out in the Government Work Report that by the end of the 20th century when people's lives reach a moderately prosperous level, our national economy can start from a new starting point and reach the level of developed countries relatively quickly. It can be seen that at this time the goal of reaching the level of developed countries in a few steps has begun to brew. However, the conditions for proposing the "three steps" development target were not yet in place before 1984, because the realization of the "moderately prosperous" target was still to be tested. Shortly after the end of the 12th Party Congress, on October 14th, 1982, Deng Xiaoping spoke to the comrades responsible for the State Planning Commission, saying: "Can we rely on doubling by the end of the 20th century? The 12th Party Congress said we can rely on it, and I also believe that we can, but whether we can indeed rely on it depends on the work in the future." "We now need to concentrate on making long-term plans. The key to long-term planning is to prepare for the latter ten years in the first ten years." "Preparation has a problem of racing against time and cannot be taken lightly." What Deng Xiaoping was saying here is that without racing against time and taking it seriously, the goal of doubling may be in jeopardy.
After the 12th National Congress of the Party proposed the goal of doubling in 1982, the perennial question in Deng Xiaoping's mind was: "Can our proposed goal of doubling by the end of this century be achieved, or will it fall short?" From 1982 to 1984, China's economy grew rapidly, greatly exceeding the economic growth rate stipulated by the "Sixth Five-Year Plan", major breakthroughs were made in rural reform, China's grain production reached a historical peak in 1984, and urban reform also began, and the national situation was promising. In the early 1983, Deng Xiaoping inspected the south of the Yangtze River. He passed through Jiangsu, Zhejiang and then to Shanghai, he saw the situation was very good along the way, people were beaming, many new houses were being built, the market was rich in materials, and local officials were very confident. Seeing these lively scenes, Deng Xiaoping believed, "it seems there is great hope for the four modernizations." After returning to Beijing, Deng Xiaoping proposed in a discussion with several leading comrades in the center that there should be a more specific overall plan for doubling by the end of the 20th century, and each province, autonomous region, and municipality directly under the central government should also have their own specific plans, so that they have an idea in mind. In March 1984, Deng Xiaoping stating confidently during a conversation with Japanese Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone, "the target of doubling will not fall short." In June, Deng Xiaoping confidently told the delegation of the Japanese committee of the second Sino-Japanese Civilian Conference that China's economy will continue to develop in the coming years, "the target of doubling by the end of this century will be definitely achieved." On October 1, at the 35th anniversary ceremony of the founding of the People's Republic of China, Deng Xiaoping solemnly declared that the situation in recent years has shown that the grand goal of doubling proposed at the 12th Congress can be achieved.
Considering that the realization of a "moderately prosperous society" by the end of the 20th century has become a realistic goal, Deng Xiaoping began to think across the century for the future and long-term interests of the Chinese nation, designing a grand blueprint for China's development in the 21st century.
On April 18, 1984, Deng Xiaoping met with British Foreign Minister Geoffrey Howe. Before and after this, Deng Xiaoping had made it clear that reaching a moderately prosperous society at the end of the 20th century is the "lowest target" for the four modernizations.



So, how much longer will it take to achieve the "big goals" of four modernizations, i.e., to basically realize modernization? He first proposed this idea while talking with Jeffrey. He said that compared to our big goals, the development of these years is just a beginning. After reaching a moderately prosperous level, we still have to approach the level of developed countries within 30 to 50 years in the 21st century. Deng Xiaoping then repeatedly mentioned this idea. On May 29, Deng Xiaoping said during a meeting with Brazilian President Figueiredo: "China is still very poor, with a per capita GDP of only $300. But we have great ambitions, by the end of the 20th century, we aim to reach $800 per capita. $800 is not much for developed countries, but for China, it is truly great ambition. More importantly, on this basis, after another 30 to 50 years of development, we can approach the level of developed countries." Later, on June 30, October 6, and October 22 of the same year, Deng Xiaoping expressed his ideas in roughly the same language, i.e. achieving a GDP per capita of $800 by the end of the 20th century, not $1000. This is because he took into account the population of China by the end of the 20th century, which was more than 1 billion and approximately controlled to around 1.2 billion. Making GDP double and population growing to 1.2 billion, the GDP per capita would be just over $800. Later, Deng Xiaoping adopted the flexible approach of "$800 to $1000", but sometimes still said "$800" or "$1000". In addition, the goal he proposed at this time was "approaching the level of developed countries", and the time required was "30 to 50 years," which is not quite the same as what he said later.

By 1985, Deng Xiaoping's "three-step" concept had taken a step forward. He pointed out in his speech at the National Scientific and Technological Work Conference on March 7, 1985 that we have been struggling for decades to eliminate poverty. The first step is to reach a moderately prosperous level by the end of the 20th century, that is, not being poor or rich, and living a relatively good life. The second step is to use another 30 to 50 years to approach the level of developed countries economically and make the people's lives relatively affluent. This is the big picture. Deng Xiaoping's words have several new points compared to his conversation in 1984: First, he used the terms "first step" and "second step", preparing for the subsequent summary of the "three-step walk"; Second, he explained the "moderately prosperous level", which means not being poor or rich, having a better life; Third, he paired "making people's lives relatively prosperous" with approaching the level of developed countries as the goal of struggle; Fourth, he pointed out that this is the "big picture" of the entire Party and country. On March 25, 1985, Deng Xiaoping, in his conversation with American journalists and his conversation with Tanzanian Vice President Mwinyi on April 15 of the same year, stated that the first step was to achieve a moderately prosperous level by the end of the 20th century. From the end of 1979 when this goal was put forward to the end of the 20th century, it was 20 years. Based on a GDP reaching 1 trillion dollars, it would take another 30 to 50 years, or more accurately, another 50 years, to possibly reach the level of developed countries and achieve the goal of our second step. It will take 70 years to accomplish this task. In these two conversations, Deng Xiaoping clearly extended the time span of China's economic development strategy from 20 years to 70 years, dividing the development goal in two steps, thereby making strategic goals and strategic deployment clearer and clearer. In September 1985, the Communist Party of China held a national representative meeting. Deng Xiaoping pointed out at the meeting: "Now people say that China has undergone noticeable changes..."



I once told some foreign guests that it was just a small change. Quadrupling and achieving a moderately prosperous standard could be considered a medium change. By the middle of the 21st century, being able to approach the level of developed countries in the world is a big change. Deng Xiaoping used the terms "small change", "medium change" and "big change" here. These "three changes" clearly present the three stages of economic development, which are very similar to his later summarized "three-step" strategy.
By 1987, Deng Xiaoping's "three-step" strategic thinking was completely formed. The good momentum of economic development in 1985 and 1986 showed that most of the major indicators of our country's "Seventh Five-Year" plan could be completed ahead of schedule, which meant that the strategic goal of doubling by 1990 could be realized earlier. This made Deng Xiaoping more confident and his vision for future economic development more clear and explicit. On March 8, 1987, Deng Xiaoping told visiting Tanzanian President Mwinyi that we have gained construction experience and pleasing results over the past eight years. "For the first decade, from 1981 to 1990, it was estimated that there would be no problem doubling the gross national product, and it could be completed ahead of schedule. For the second decade, from 1991 to the end of this century, a second doubling is also reliable from the development trend. Life has improved significantly in the eight years since the Third Plenary Session of the Eleventh Party Committee. By the end of this century, although our per capita GDP of 800 to 1,000 US dollars is not much, the annual GDP will exceed 1 trillion US dollars. With this foundation, it is hopeful to strive to reach the level of moderately developed countries." Here, Deng Xiaoping has actually proposed the strategic concept of "three steps", just without explicitly using the terms "first step", "second step", and "third step". Moreover, here Deng Xiaoping has changed China's development strategic goal for the mid-21st century from "approaching the level of developed countries" to "reaching the level of moderately developed countries". On April 16 of the same year, Deng Xiaoping used the standard of "moderately developed countries" again in his speech when he met with members of the Drafting Committee of the Basic Law of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, and for the first time quantified this goal as "per capita 4,000 dollars" and "Gross national product of 6 trillion yuan", thus making China's strategic goal for the mid-21st century clear and visible. On April 30 of the same year, Deng Xiaoping gave a clear and complete description of the "three-step" economic development strategic goal during his meeting with Spanish Deputy Prime Minister Gracia. Deng Xiaoping pointed out: Our original goal was to double in the 1980s for the first step. Based on 1980, the gross national product per capita was only 250 US dollars at that time, doubling, reaching 500 US dollars. The second step is to double again by the end of the 20th century, reaching a per capita of 1,000 US dollars. Achieving this goal means that we have entered a moderately prosperous society, and have turned poor China into a moderately prosperous one. At that time, the gross national product exceeded 1 trillion dollars, although the per capita number is still very low, but the strength of the country has greatly increased. Our more important goal is the third step, to quadruple in 30 to 50 years in the 21st century, basically reaching a per capita value of 4,000 US dollars. With this step, China will reach a moderately developed level. This is our great ambition.



By this point, Deng Xiaoping's vision of the "three-step" economic development strategy for China's modernization has fully formed.
3. Establishment of the "Three-Step" Economic Development Strategy
According to Deng Xiaoping's concept and the basic national conditions of the primary stage of socialism in China, the 13th National Congress of the Communist Party of China (CPC) officially established the "three-step" economic development strategy for socialist modernization in October 1987. The congress report proposed: "After the Third Plenary Session of the 11th Communist Party of China Central Committee, the strategic deployment of our country's economic construction is generally divided into three steps. The first step is to double the gross national product (GNP) from its 1980 level and solve the problem of people's subsistence. This goal has been basically achieved. The second step is to double the GNP again by the end of the 20th century, and to reach a moderately well-off living standard for the people. The third step is to bring the per capita GNP up to the level of medium-developed countries by the mid-21st century, achieve a relatively affluent living standard for the people, and basically realize modernization. Then, continue to move forward on this basis." The formulation of the "three-step" economic development strategy has resolved significant issues related to the objectives and steps of China's modernization, and will have a lasting and profound impact on China's development for many decades to come.
Compared to China's previous development strategies, the "three-step" economic development strategy for socialist modernization has unique features: First, it is practical. Compared to the goals of "surpass England and catch up with America in fifteen years," and "realize four modernizations by the end of this century," this is a lower target but a practical one. The completion of the first step of the "three-step" well ahead of time is powerful evidence of this. Second, it takes improving people's material and cultural life as its starting point and end goal. Describing the objectives of modernization as "subsistence," "moderately well-off," and "affluent," enables the people to vividly and intuitively understand and personally experience the process of achieving these goals, serving to motivate the public and bolster their confidence. It is in line with the fundamental purpose of socialism. Third, it is clear, concrete, and quantifiable. The goals are quantified as "1000 dollars" and "4000 dollars," making the targets very specific and easy to implement and evaluate. Fourth, it is connected with the global economy. Using "dollars" as the measurement unit, this goal views China's economy in a broader context, making the gap between China and developed countries clear, and positioning China's economy within global economic development. Fifth, it is both an economic objective and a political one. The fundamental task of socialism is to develop productivity; modernization construction is China's paramount political concern, and whether we can achieve the strategic objectives of the "three-step" is tied to the fate and future of socialism. Thus, it is not only an objective for economic development, but also a political goal.
The achievement of the strategic objectives of the "three-step" is of great significance. It is a strategic goal that allows China to gradually escape from poverty and move towards prosperity.



Achieving this strategic goal can not only greatly enhance our country's comprehensive national strength, significantly improve people's lives, and greatly increase China's international influence, make a significant contribution to mankind, but also better reflect the superiority of the socialist system. Deng Xiaoping pointed out, "To prove that socialism is truly superior to capitalism, we have to see the third step, and we are not yet qualified to brag about it." China has a large population. If by the middle of the 21st century, the population reaches 1.5 billion and the per capita is $4000, the annual national output will reach $60 trillion, which is far beyond the U.S.'s GDP of $49.7 trillion in 1987. "This not only provides a way for the third world, which accounts for three-fourths of the world's total population, but more importantly, it demonstrates to mankind that socialism is the only way and socialism is superior to capitalism."

The "Three-Step" economic development strategy is an important part of building socialism with Chinese characteristics theory and is the specific implementation plan and fundamental manifestation of the central task of socialist modernization construction. Some major principles and policies for building socialism with Chinese characteristics revolve around and serve this development strategy. This development strategy points the way for the construction of socialism with Chinese characteristics during the primary stage of socialism. It can be foreseen that as long as we continue to follow the path of socialism with Chinese characteristics, Deng Xiaoping's "Three-step" development strategy for modernization construction will be realized.

3. Further clarification of the goal of political system reform

With the deepening of economic system reform, the task of political system reform is more urgently placed on the party's agenda. The task of political system reform, as early as before and after the Third Plenary Session of the 11th Central Committee, began to attract people's attention. In 1980, Deng Xiaoping, in his speech on the reform of the party and state leadership system at the expanded meeting of the Political Bureau of the Central Committee, solemnly put forward the major task of political system reform. The central government was prepared to gradually implement political system reform from then onwards, but for various reasons, the political system reform was not fully implemented until 1986.

1. Profound understanding of the importance and urgency of advancing political system reform

With the development of the situation, the reform of the political system inevitably becomes a topic on the agenda again. On June 10, 1986, Deng Xiaoping, while listening to the report on the current economic situation by the central leaders, clearly pointed out: From now on, if we don't reform the political system, we can't adapt to the situation. Reform should include political system reform, and it should be regarded as a symbol of pushing forward reform. Deng Xiaoping also emphasized that all comrades, especially the comrades of the Central Secretariat, should think about the issue of political system reform, find someone to sort it out, and make things clear. He requested that the following be achieved before the 13th National Congress: straighten out the relationship between the party and the government; clarify the content of political system reform, determine the scope of political system reform; and draw up a blueprint for political system reform.

The series of ideas proposed by Deng Xiaoping laid the foundation for the discussion and framework design of political system reform. The Central Committee of the Communist Party of China decided in 1986 to establish a Central Political System Research Group. The group, composed of five people, who are in charge of the Central Secretariat, the Central Advisory Commission, the State Council, and the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress, carried out research work under the direct leadership of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the Central Committee.



The Central Political System Reform Study Group organized practitioners from relevant departments and theorists from all walks of life, establishing seven special groups to hold focused discussions and demonstrations on topics such as party-government separation, intra-party democracy, institutional reform, cadre and personnel system reform, socialist democracy, socialist legal system construction, and the basic principles of reform. At the same time, the Central Political System Reform Study Group asked the Central Party School to also set up a study group, carrying out in-depth investigations and research in parallel with the aforementioned special groups. They extensively solicited opinions from the CPPCC, mass organizations, and other parties, seriously studied the historical experience of the political system since the founding of new China, particularly the practical experience of reform since the third plenary session of the Eleventh Central Committee, and combined the study of foreign political system structures and operation experience with practical conditions in China, raising reports on each individual topic. 
Based on the reports proposed by the special groups and the absorption of theoretical research results, the Central Political System Reform Study Group gradually formulated a plan for the overall conception of political system reform. This plan, after being generally agreed upon by the Political Bureau of the Central Committee, was submitted to the seventh plenary session of the Twelfth Central Committee in October 1987. After thorough discussion in the plenary, it endorsed the "Overall Conception of Political System Reform" in principle, deciding to incorporate the basic content of the conception into the Central Committee's report to the Thirteenth National Congress for further discussion. 
The report at the Thirteenth National Congress, based on the reality of our country during the primary stage of socialism and the needs of socialist modernization, deeply analyzed the necessity and urgency of political system reform. It elucidated the goals, tasks, and principles of reform and proposed a blueprint for the political system reform in our country. 
2. Planning of the goals of political reform
The Thirteenth National Congress divided the goals of political system reform into long-term and short-term goals. The long-term goal of political system reform as stipulated by the Thirteenth National Congress was to establish a highly democratic, well-established legal system, efficient, and vibrant socialist political system. The short-term goal was to establish a leadership system conducive to improving efficiency, enhancing vitality and mobilizing enthusiasm in all aspects. Regarding the main content of reform, the Thirteenth National Congress proposed seven aspects of reform in the near term:
Firstly, to achieve party-government separation and strengthen the establishment of the Party's system. The key to political system reform is party-government separation. The Party's leadership is political leadership, that is, it leads in terms of political principles, political direction, major decisions, and recommending important cadres to state power organs. The main way for the Party to exercise political leadership over state affairs is to turn the Party's assertions into national will through legal procedures, and to drive the broad masses of people through the activities of the Party organization and the exemplary role of Party members, to realize the Party's line, guidelines, and policies. In order to achieve the separation of the party and government, it is necessary to adjust the organizational form and work institutes of the party, and to strengthen the establishment of the Party's system, and to enhance the whole Party's understanding of party-government separation. Only in this way can the desired objectives be achieved.
Secondly, to further delegate power. The phenomenon of excessive concentration of power not only manifests itself in the excessive centralization of power in the Party's leadership organs by administrative, economic, cultural organizations and mass organizations but also at the grassroots level to the superior leadership organs. This makes the leadership organs trapped in bureaucratism and unable to extricate themselves, and the grassroots lack autonomy, and the enthusiasm of the masses is hard to mobilize fully. The general principle of delegating powers established by the Thirteenth National Congress is: all things that are suitable for lower levels to handle should be decided and implemented by the lower levels.
Thirdly, reforming the government's work institutes. The large and bloated nature of government institutions, along with their many levels, unclear responsibilities and mutual buck-passing, is an important reason for the formation of bureaucratism.



Reforms must be carried out top-down in government institutions. The principles of the reform are streamline, unify, and efficiency. The Thirteenth Congress suggests that the State Council should immediately start formulating a plan to reform the central government institutions and implement it after approval by the First Session of the Seventh National People's Congress.
Fourth, reform the cadre and personnel system. The focus of the reform is to establish a civil servant system, i.e., to make laws and regulations and scientifically manage personnel exercising state administrative power and performing state official duties in the government in accordance with the law. At the same time, personnel should be categorized according to the principles of separating party and government, separating government and enterprises, and closely integrating and reasonably restricting management of people and affairs. The main categories include: leadership and office staff of Party organizations, managed by Party committees at all levels; leadership and office staff of state power organs, judicial organs, and procuratorial organs, managed by a similar civil servant system; mass organizations' leadership and office staff, and managerial staff of enterprises and institutions, managed by their respective organizations or units according to their respective constitutions or regulations.
Fifth, establish a consultative dialogue system. The consultative dialogue system is conducive to correctly handling and coordinating various different social interests and contradictions, and enabling the work of leadership organs at all levels to be based on listening to the opinions of the masses, accepting supervision and avoiding mistakes. The basic principle to establish consultative dialogue is to carry forward the good tradition of "originating from the masses and going to the masses," increase the openness of leadership activities, inform the people of major issues, and discuss major issues with the people. 
Sixth, perfect a number of systems of socialist democratic politics. These systems include: strengthening the People's Congress system; perfecting the multi-party cooperation and political consultation system led by the Communist Party; strengthening the construction of mass organizations; improving the election system; strengthening the systematization of grassroots democratic life; further perfecting the system of regional autonomy for ethnic minorities.
Seventh, strengthen the construction of the socialist legal system. Every aspect of the state's political, economic, and social life, every link in democracy and dictatorship, should have laws to abide by, laws that must be complied with, laws that must be strictly enforced, and violators must be pursued.
Since the 13th National Congress of the Communist Party proposed the blueprint for political system reform, China's political system reform has gradually advanced from partial reform to comprehensive reform with clear goals and steps.
On November 14, 1987, the newly elected Central Political Bureau held its first plenary meeting and discussed and passed the "Work Rules (Trial) of the Thirteenth Central Political Bureau," the "Work Rules (Trial) of the Thirteenth Central Political Bureau Standing Committee," and the "Work Rules (Trial) of the Thirteenth Central Secretariat." These three rules and the later work rules of the State Council further clarified the relationships among the Central Political Bureau and its Standing Committee, the Central Secretariat, and the Central Plenary Session. The Central Secretariat became an executive agency and no longer held decision-making powers. The Central Political Bureau Standing Committee regularly reported to the Central Political Bureau, and the Central Political Bureau regularly reported to the Central Plenary session. The frequency of the Central Plenary Session also increased from once a year to twice a year. At the same time, the functions, scope of work, and working methods of the Party Central Committee and the central people’s government were clarified, providing preliminary norms for the Party Central Committee and the highest executive organ of the state to form a reasonable structure in accordance with the requirement of separating party and governmental functions. This is an important step in the construction of inner-Party and national democracy.



At the same time, differential elections began to be implemented within the party. According to the method of differential election stipulated by the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China, the 13th National Congress of the Party implemented differential elections with a representative of 20%, a central committee member of 5%, and an alternate central committee member of 12%. The result of the 13th National Congress of the Communist Party of China was that 10 candidates for the Central Committee failed to be elected, 16 were alternate members of the Central Committee, and 4 members of the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection were not pre-elected. At the provincial level, differential elections have been implemented in the elections of standing committee members of provincial committees, directors and deputy directors of standing committees of people's congresses of provinces, autonomous regions, and municipalities, as well as governors and deputy governors. In the provincial-level turnover election after the 13th National Congress, 11 directors of the Standing Committee of the People's Congress of provinces, autonomous regions, and municipalities, 8 governors and chairmen of provinces and autonomous regions implemented a differential election, and 99 candidates recommended by the representatives of the people of 28 provinces, autonomous regions, and municipalities were listed as official candidates , Among them, 12 people were elected, including 4 directors of the Standing Committee of the People's Congress, 2 deputy directors, 5 deputy governors and deputy mayors, and 1 presiding judge of a senior court. This is unprecedented in the history of elections of people's power since the founding of New China, and it has caused a strong response in our country's political life.
According to the requirements of the separation of party and government functions and the principle of improving party leadership, the Party Central Committee's directly-affiliated institutions were reformed in 1988. The Central Committee of the Party originally had 26 directly-affiliated work units and institutions, 8 were abolished during the reform, 3 were transformed, 15 were retained, and 5 new ones were established. After adjustment, the Central Committee of the Party has 23 directly-affiliated work units and institutions. In the reform, attention was paid to clarify the responsibilities of the party's work department and the administrative department, straighten out the relationship between the party's work organ and the government organ, transfer the work that should be undertaken by the government department to the relevant government department, and no longer set up leadership groups and offices that overlap with the Central Committee of the Party and the State Council. Provinces, autonomous regions, and municipalities have made corresponding rules, and reforms have been made in specific organizational forms and working methods. The party committee generally does not have a full-time secretary in charge of government work, abolished the counterpart department in the party committee office, streamlined party committee institutions, and reduced full-time cadres.
In enterprises, in accordance with the "Draft Law on State-Owned Industrial Enterprises of the People's Republic of China" passed by the First Session of the Seventh National People's Congress, enterprises implement a manager (manager) responsibility system, the manager is the legal representative of the enterprise, in the enterprise In a central position, leading the production and operation management of the enterprise, bearing comprehensive responsibility for the material and spiritual construction of the enterprise. The grassroots organizations of the Communist Party of China in enterprises guarantee the implementation of party and national policies and policies in the enterprise. This provides a legal basis for the separation of party and government functions in enterprises. After the implementation of the Enterprise Law, enterprises across the country have generally implemented the factory manager (manager) responsibility system, and the pattern of separating party and government functions in enterprises has basically formed.
3. The initiation of government institutional reform and cadre personnel system reform
According to the blueprint of political system reform designed by the 13th National Congress, government institutional reform and cadre personnel system reform were on the agenda. From March 25 to April 14, 1988, the first meeting of the Seventh National People's Congress was held, which approved the "Reform Plan of the State Council Institutions". Li Peng elaborated on the goals, policies and key points of government institutional reform in his "Government Work Report". He said: The long-term goal of government institutional reform is to gradually establish a full-fledged, reasonably structured, coordinated, flexible and efficient administrative management system with Chinese characteristics in accordance with the principles of separation of party and government, separation of government and enterprises, and simplicity, unity and efficiency. Achieving this goal requires long-term efforts. In the next five years, efforts should be made to create conditions to gradually straighten out the relationship between the government and enterprises, institutions and people's organizations, the relationship between government departments, and the relationship between the central government and local governments. 





The "State Council Institutional Reform Plan" determines that 12 ministerial-level institutions will be abolished, 9 new ministries will be established, and 32 will be retained. Thus, the former 45 are adjusted to 41, and Xinhua News Agency has been converted into an institution. In addition, the number of institutions directly under the State Council is adjusted from 22 to 19, the number of service institutions from 4 to 7, the State Bureau under the unified management of various ministries from 14 to 15, and the non-permanent institutions from 77 to 44. The number of streamlined personnel is about 20%.

Compared with the reform in 1982, the biggest difference in this institutional reform of the State Council is that it is carried out in accordance with the requirements of the political and economic system reform process, focusing on the transformation of functions, matching with the internal system construction of the government, and combined with the preparatory work of implementing the national civil service system. In practice, focusing on the transformation of functions, decomposing functions according to the principle of separating government from enterprises, transferring out the function of directly managing enterprises, and letting go of the functions of directly managing money and things, while strengthening functions such as decision-making, consultation, regulation, supervision and information that belong to the central government. At the same time, it has also strengthened the functions of social management that were originally undertaken by the party's departments and should be undertaken by the government departments. On this basis, the institutions are set up according to the new functions, and the personnel establishment is determined. According to the function, the departments that undertake the same or similar business are abolished, and their business is undertaken by one department; there is generally no corresponding professional organization in the comprehensive economic departments, and the industry management work is undertaken by the competent departments; only two levels of department and office are set up within the ministries to reduce the management levels within the departments. This reform of the State Council's institutions has promoted the transformation of the government's management of enterprises from direct management to indirect management, and has made a considerable push to reduce the overlap of functions and institutions in work, enhance institutional vitality, and improve work efficiency, laying a good foundation for further reform and local institutional reform.

The central government's institutional reform also requires corresponding connection with local reforms. Therefore, the State Council's Institutional Reform Office began preparatory work in August 1988. Prior to May 1986, pilot work for local institutional reform had been conducted in 16 medium-sized cities. In 1989, with the approval of the State Council, it was decided to carry out institutional reform pilot projects in Harbin, Qingdao, Wuhan, and Shenzhen, four planned cities, and nine counties including Ji City, Hebei, Yuanping, Shanxi, Zuozi Mountain, Inner Mongolia, Shangyu, Zhejiang, Hua County, Henan, Huarong, Hunan, Baoan, Guangdong, Qiongwei, Sichuan, and Dingxi, Gansu. After gaining experience in pilot reforms at different levels and of different types, the pilot was expanded in 1991. Through the pilot, not only has the pilot unit itself achieved certain results in institutional reform, but the thinking of local institutional reform has also become clearer. According to the pilot experience, the State Council intends to gradually promote local institutional reform, with the basic idea of sorting out relations, transforming functions, launching local institutional reform, including sorting out relations between the central and local governments, relations between local governments at all levels; rationally dividing powers, and changing the functions of local governments at all levels according to the requirements of separating the government from enterprises; and then striving to realize the scientification of administrative decision-making system, the perfection of administrative execution system, the rationalization of administrative supervision system, and the perfection of the operation mechanism of administrative management.

The establishment of a national civil service system is the key point of cadre and personnel system reform determined by the Thirteenth Five-Year Plan. According to the arrangement of the Thirteenth Five-Year Plan, the State has set up a Personnel Department as the national civil servant management agency. After the establishment of the Personnel Department, on the one hand, it began to formulate the National Civil Service Management Regulations, and at the same time, pilot programs were carried out in six departments including the Audit Office, the General Administration of Customs, the State Statistics Bureau, the State Taxation Bureau, the State Building Materials Bureau, and the State Environmental Protection Bureau. In 1991, Harbin and Shenzhen were selected to pilot the local civil service system. The pilot in the six departments of the State Council is to starting with job classification in conjunction with institutional reform. The determination of government functions is the basis of institutional setting and also the premise of establishing a civil service system. In the past, the functions were unclear, and everything was set according to people. Now with clear functions, people can be selected according to tasks, which is undoubtedly a huge progress. These six departments began to pilot job classification based on the "Three Determinations" plan from April 1989, and completed 2618 job surveys, analyses, evaluations and the drafting of job classification norms and job arrays by the end of June 1990.



An important aspect of the civil service system is the examination and recruitment and training system for civil servants. From 1987 to 1988, 13 departments including politics and law, industry and commerce, and taxation adopted the method of examination and recruitment based on provinces for supplementing civil servants. More than 1 million people across the country registered to take the test, and over 80,000 people were recruited. In January 1989, the Central Organization Department and the State Personnel Department issued the "Notice on Implementing the Examination and Assessment Method for Supplementing Staff in State Administrative Organs", requiring county and above administrative organs to implement examination and assessment methods for supplementing staff. The procedures include: issuing announcements, eligibility reviews, written exams, interviews, physical exams, assessments, and recruitments. The examination system has a history in China. The imperial examination system formed over thousands of years is the main way for China to select officials. The examination and recruitment system for civil servants is by no means a revival of the traditional imperial examination system, but an important reform of the past cadre selection system to meet the needs of modern social life. This method of open examinations and merit-based recruitment has had a positive impact on implementing competition principles in cadre personnel management, strengthening democratic supervision, preventing unethical behavior in employment, and ensuring the quality of recruited staff. 

Reforms to the personnel system of enterprises and institutions have also made significant progress. In May 1988, the Central Organization Department and the Ministry of Personnel formulated the "Several Opinions on the Introduction of a Competitive Mechanism to Reform the Cadre Personnel System in State-Owned Enterprises", requiring the introduction of a competitive mechanism into enterprise personnel management, and selecting enterprise operators through public tendering; the appointment of managers at all levels within the enterprise should also implement various forms of appointment system, appoint by level and choose the best. The enterprise has the right to appoint and dismiss, and the individual has the right to be appointed and to resign. In 1991, the Central Organization Department and the Ministry of Personnel issued the "Interim Provisions on the Management of Cadres Appointed by State-Owned Enterprises", which unified the provision of appointments, transfers, retirements, your treatment, further improving the cadre appointment system in enterprises.

By the end of 1990, the number of cadres appointed by enterprises across the country had reached 1.7 million, of which more than 90% were appointed from workers. Practice has proved that the implementation of the appointment system for enterprise cadres is relatively successful. Therefore, many institutions also use similar enterprise tendering methods to select leaders of their own units. The appointment system for professional and technical positions is generally implemented among scientific and technological cadres.

IV. Taking a New Path of Strengthening Party Building through Institutional Construction  

Whether China's reform and opening up and socialist modernization construction can reach the expected goals depends on many factors, but the most important one is still the status of the Chinese Communist Party as the ruling party. Since the Third Plenary Session of the 11th Central Committee, the Chinese Communist Party has been firmly grasping the key link of strengthening the party's own construction while leading reform and economic construction. It has made great efforts to strengthen the party's ideological construction, political construction, organizational construction and style construction, and has gradually embarked on a new path of strengthening party building through institutional construction.

1. Completion of the New Round of Party Rectification

As early as the 12th National Congress, the Party Central Committee decided to start from the second half of 1983 and use 3 years to carry out a comprehensive rectification of the party’s style and organization in stages and batches.



From October 11th to 12th, 1983, the second plenary session of the 12th Central Committee of the Communist Party of China (CPC) was held in Beijing. In accordance with the decisions of the 12th National Congress of the CPC, the meeting arranged a comprehensive reshaping of the party. The meeting resulted in a decision by the CPC Central Committee on reshaping the party (referred to as "Necessity and Urgency"). The decision analyzed the need and urgency for reshaping the party and proposed the overall objective and requirements for the party reshaping. These included guiding the work with Marxism-Leninism and Mao Zedong Thought, relying on the revolutionary consciousness of all party comrades, using the sharp weapon of criticism and self-criticism correctly, implementing party discipline, revealing and resolving serious ideological, style, and organizational impurities within the party, fundamentally improving the party style, raising the ideological and working levels of the whole party, bringing the party closer to the masses, and striving to build the party into a strong core that leads the socialist modernization project.

The decision clearly stipulated that the reshaping of the party required unified thinking, rectification of the style of work, strengthening of the discipline, and purification of the organization. Specific explanations were provided as follows:

- Unified thinking involves further achieving high consistency in ideology and politics throughout the party and correcting all tendencies that violate the four fundamental principles and the party's line since the Third Plenary Session of the Eleventh Central Committee.
- Rectifying the work style means promoting the revolutionary spirit of serving the people wholeheartedly, correcting all behaviors that exploit power for personal gain, and opposing irresponsible bureaucratic practices towards the party and the people.
- Strengthening discipline involves adhering to the organizational principles of democratic centralism, opposing patriarchal systems, factionalism, anarchism, and liberalism, and transforming the weak and loose state of party organizations.
- To purify the organization in accordance with the party charter by excluding members who persistently oppose or damage the party.

The decision prescribed that the reshaping of the party should be carried out from the central to grassroots party organizations, from top to bottom, in stages and batches. The reshaping of each unit of the party organization should also follow this top-down approach, starting with leaders and cadres, followed by party members and the masses. The fundamental method for reshaping the party is to carry out criticism and self-criticism, distinguish right from wrong, correct mistakes, and purify the organization. Throughout the process, ideological education should be strengthened, aiming to raise the ideological awareness of all party members. The decision announced the establishment of the Central Party Reshaping Work Guidance Committee.

According to the decision on reshaping the party and the guidance of the CPC Central Reshaping Guidance Committee, the comprehensive reshaping of the party proceeded in three phases. 

The first phase was carried out in central, national government ministries and commissions, as well as provincial, autonomous regions, municipalities, and major units of the People's Liberation Army. To strengthen the leadership of the first phase of the party reshaping, the Central Party Reshaping Guidance Committee and the Central Military Commission jointly dispatched 90 reshaping liaison groups with 850 participants and established ten guiding groups for reshaping the work at the central and state agencies. During this period, the Central Committee for Reshaping issued 11 notifications and other documents. These documents gave specific instructions on various issues such as studying documents on reshaping the party, fully listening to suggestions from non-party friends and the non-party masses, establishing two groups for reshaping and business work, comparing checks, making changes while reshaping, handling organizational procedures and party member registration, inspection summaries, and consolidating development reshaping, etc. These guidelines not only provided timely guidance for each stage of the first phase of reshaping but also played a significant role in all phases of reshaping the party.



The second stage was carried out in the party organizations of enterprises, institutions, colleges, scientific research institutions, etc., at the municipal and county levels. From February 28 to March 6, 1985, the Central Party Guidance Committee held the second stage Party Construction Conference, deploying the second stage of party rectification. Faced with several tendencies that disturbed construction and reform within the party and society at that time, the Central Party Rectification Guidance Committee emphasized in the notice that the key points for party rectification at the municipal and county levels should be to enhance the party spirit of party members, correct new unhealthy tendencies, ensure the smooth progress of reforms, and promote the continued healthy development of the political and economic situation. To grasp the basic situation of the second stage party rectification work in various places, the Central Party Rectification Guidance Committee sent seven inspection teams to understand the situation, find problems, summarize experience, and make suggestions.

The third stage was carried out in the grassroots party organizations in the vast rural areas. On November 24, 1985, the Central Party Rectification Guidance Committee issued a notice on the deployment of rural party rectification work, making comprehensive arrangements for the specific requirements, methods, and steps of rural party rectification work. Provinces, autonomous regions, and municipalities directly under the Central Government sent 630,000 propagandists and liaison officers to help with party rectification in rural areas. From May to June 1986, the Central Party Rectification Guidance Committee held a symposium on party rectification work for secretaries of the party committees of provinces, autonomous regions, and municipalities directly under the Central Government, further clarifying the fundamental guiding ideology of rural party rectification, requiring serious attention to resolving the serious issues of power-for-private-gain and serious violation of laws and discipline among party members and cadres at the district, township, and village levels, and effectively strengthening the construction of rural leadership teams.

By the spring of 1987, the national party rectification work that had lasted for three and a half years had basically ended. On May 26, Bo Yibo, deputy director of the Central Party Rectification Guidance Committee, made a report on "The Basic Summary of Party Rectification and Further Strengthening Party Construction", making a overall evaluation of party rectification. When summarizing the achievements of party rectification in various aspects, Bo Yibo specifically pointed out:

The achievements in unifying thinking mainly include: (1) All party members, from senior cadres to the masses, through serious and relatively systematic study of the party rectification documents, have clarified many vague understandings, deepened their understanding of the socialist construction with Chinese characteristics since the Third Plenary Session of the 11th Central Committee of the Party, clarified the adherence to reform, opening up, activating the economy and vigorously developing the socialist planned commodity economy. It is the only way to build a rich, democratic, and civilized socialist country, and further enhanced the voluntary implementation of these Marxist-Leninist policies. (2) Through the education of completely negating the "Cultural Revolution", the majority of party members are clear that both factions in the "Cultural Revolution" were engaged in activities under the "left" theory of "struggling class struggle as the guiding principle" and "continuing the revolution under the dictatorship of the proletariat" and were wrong in general. This further eliminated factionalism and "leftist" toxins and laid a more solid ideological and political foundation for strengthening the unity of the party and inspiring the reform and innovation spirit of party members. (3) By universally carrying out education on party character, ideals, and purpose, the condition of bartered communist ideal and the idea of serving the people among some party members was changed, the ideological consciousness of the majority of party members was improved, and the ability to resist the erosion of capitalist and feudalistic decay views was strengthened.

The progress made in rectifying work style mainly includes: (1) Various places have tried hard to investigate some serious cases of party members violating laws and discipline, seeking private interests with power, and serious irresponsibility of bureaucratism, basically curbing new malpractices such as party and government cadres running businesses, and improving the party style to varying degrees. (2) It promoted the change in work of leadership organizations at all levels, bureaucracy has decreased, the idea of serving at the base level has been strengthened, many party member leaders in various regions and departments have taken the lead in going deep into the grassroots level, conducting surveys and research, and solving practical problems in construction, reform, and people's lives, thus improving the relationship between the party and the masses.



(3) During the party rectification in rural areas, financial affairs were generally sorted out. Party members and cadres took the lead in returning long-overdue public funds and public goods, and took the initiative in doing practical things for the public, which was welcomed by the peasants. 
The main achievements in strengthening discipline and purifying the organization are as follows: (1) Severe efforts were spent in eliminating the "three kinds of people" from the "Cultural Revolution" and those who have made serious mistakes. Comrades participating in the party rectification, despite all kinds of difficulties and resistances, conducted a lot of strenuous investigation and evidence collection work. On the basis of several cleansings that were carried out before the party rectification, which dealt with 400,000 people, a further action across the country (excluding Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region) purged 5,449 "three kinds of people" and 43,074 individuals who had committed severe mistakes. (2) The tradition of criticism, self-criticism, and strict internal party life was restored and carried forward, and members' concept of organizational discipline has been reinforced compared to the past. Some party organizations, formerly in a paralyzed or semi-paralyzed state, have clearly improved after restructuring. (3) Through member registration and organizational processing, a group of members with serious problems and those disqualified were addressed. With 33,896 people expelled from the party, 90,069 denied registration, 145,456 deferred registration, and 184,071 given party discipline punishments such as probation, dismissal of party positions, recommendation of dismissal from non-party positions, serious warnings, warnings, etc. (4) A number of problematic and loosely organized leadership teams were re-adjusted, about half of the team leaders above the county level have been replenished to varying degrees. With the adjustments and replenishment, the construction of leadership teams was advanced. With the advent of a group of middle-aged and young party members who are firm in party spirit, upright in work style, and lead the masses to resolutely implement the current party policies.

The most significant meaning of this party rectification in the history of party building is that it purged the "three kinds of people" (referring to those who followed Lin Biao and Jiang Qing's anti-revolutionary group during the "Cultural Revolution", those with serious gang ideologies, and smashing robbers) hidden within various levels of party organizations, eliminated the hidden dangers that affect unity within the party and disrupted the party's construction, and purified the party organization. 

Of course, while achieving certain results, this party rectification also had shortcomings: uneven development of party rectification with some units, including some higher and middle-level party and government bodies, failed to fully complete the four basic tasks of the party rectification. Some even did it casually, damaging the party rectification's reputation among the masses. Units that performed well in party rectification also left some issues in party style and other areas, needing resolutions in the future regular party building.

2. Arrival of a New Stage in the Building of Party's Cadre Team
Comrade Mao Zedong once said in discussing the importance of cadre team building: "After the political route is determined, cadres are the deciding factor." Mao Zedong paid the most attention to training party cadres in his life. Chen Yun once said that one of Mao Zedong's incomparable achievements from the Zunyi Conference to the victory of the Anti-Japanese War was the cultivation of a generation of people, including us and a group of "38-type" cadres.

After the Third Plenary Session of the 11th Central Committee, the second-generation leadership of the Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party, with Deng Xiaoping as the core, gradually found the path to building socialism with Chinese characteristics, forming a set of correct guidelines and policies, and initiating a new situation in the construction of socialist modernization. Deng Xiaoping did not become complacent due to this but extended his thinking to how to ensure the continuation of the cause pioneered by the older generation of revolutionaries.

As early as August 18, 1980, Deng Xiaoping first proposed that cadres should be "four modernizations" in a speech at an enlarged meeting of the Political Bureau of the Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party. On December 25 of the same year, Deng Xiaoping clearly proposed the "four modernizations" standard for cadres in the Central Working Conference with the title "Implementing Adjustment Policies, Ensuring Stability and Unity".



He said, we should ensure the rejuvenation, intellectualization, and professionalization of our cadre team under the premise of adhering to the socialist path, and gradually develop a sound cadre system to guarantee this. The three conditions of rejuvenation, intellectualization, and professionalization are proposed, of course, the first thing is to revolutionize, so it is necessary to adhere to the socialist path as a premise. 
On July 2, 1981, Deng Xiaoping gave a speech at a symposium for party secretaries of provinces, autonomous regions, and municipalities directly under the Central Government, titled "The First Task of Old Cadres is to Select Middle and Young Cadres". After analyzing the importance of promoting middle and young cadres, he proposed to establish the goal and plan for training and selecting middle and young cadres. He said: I suggest, let's discuss, should we propose a 5-year plan? The best is four years, until 1985. As for the cadre issue, I suggest two plans: a five-year plan and a ten-year plan. The first five years should select about 50,000 people and put them on appropriate job positions for training. In these five years, our leadership members, bureau-level members, provincial, autonomous region, and municipality-level members, around 50 years old, around 40 years old, gradually reach a certain proportion, put forward a requirement. By the second five years, we have to reach which level of leaders (for example, at the provincial, city, autonomous region level, ministerial level), except for special circumstances, not to exceed a certain age.
In the opening speech at the 12th National Congress of the Communist Party of China, Deng Xiaoping put the "four modernizations" of the cadre team at the forefront of current work. At this congress, "revolutionization, rejuvenation, intellectualization, and specialization" were written into the new party constitution approved by the 12th Congress as the goal of building a cadre team with Chinese characteristics.
The "four modernizations" construction of the cadre team is to apply the principle of combining morality with talent, being both red and professional, specifically to the cadre construction, which reflects the objective requirements of China's socialist modernization construction. Revolutionization means that cadres must support the political and ideological lines since the Third Plenary Session of the Eleventh Central Committee, speak the party spirit, and not speak the party line, adhere to the socialist road, and have a strong sense of cause and responsibility. Rejuvenation means, under the premise of revolutionization, to select a large number of outstanding middle-aged and young cadres to various leadership positions, so that the cadre team of party and state leadership organs at all levels forms a echelon structure, is full of vitality and maintains vigorous vitality. Intellectualization and professionalization require that leadership cadres must have a certain cultural level and knowledge level, be able to master and use modern natural science, social science, and management science knowledge, and scientifically lead and manage socialist modernization construction. This fundamentally changes the previous tendency in the selection standard of leadership cadres to weigh family background, party seniority, depth of experience.
To achieve the "four modernizations" of the cadre team, it is necessary to abolish the lifelong tenure of leadership cadres. This is a key point and also a difficulty. In this regard, the party and the country have taken the following four measures to abolish the tenure of cadres:
The first is to establish term system for cadre positions. The Constitutional Law of the People's Republic of China passed by the Fifth Session of the Fifth National People's Congress abolished the lifelong tenure of cadres in the form of a fundamental national law. The Constitution stipulates that the term of the highest statewide leadership position for each term is five years, and the number of re-elections shall not exceed two terms.



The second involves the establishment of a cadre retirement system. In 1982, the CPC Central Committee made a decision on "On the Establishment of a Cadre Retirement System," stipulating that those who serve as the main person in charge at the ministerial level in central and state organs, and at the provincial level, should generally not exceed 65 years of age for the primary position, 60 years of age for the deputy position, and not exceeding 60 years of age for those at the bureau-level. In special cases where a cadre has not yet reached retirement age but their health is poor, they may retire early. After a cadre retires, their political life treatment remains unchanged. In accordance with the spirit of this document, by the end of 1982, more than 7,260 veteran cadres from the central authorities and central state organs directly under the CPC Central Committee had completed their retirement procedures. In August 1982, at the Seventh Plenary Session of the 11th CPC Central Committee, Liu Bocheng, and Cai Chang resigned from leadership positions. In September 1985, at the Fourth Plenary Session of the 12th CPC Central Committee, Ye Jianying, Deng Yingchao, Xu Xiangqian, Nie Rongzhen, and other 64 old comrades requested not to serve as members and alternate members of the Central Committee; Li Jingquan, Xiao Jinguang, He Changgong, and other 37 old comrades requested not to serve as members of the Central Advisory Commission; Huang Kecheng, Wang Congwu, and other 30 old comrades will no longer serve as members of the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection.

Deng Xiaoping, who advocated abolition of the lifelong system of leadership positions, has long hoped to gradually disappear from the political stage because he realizes that too much honor is a burden to himself, and an individual weighing too heavy is also a burden for the party and the state. Because many countries base their policies towards China on whether he is sick or dead, which to build a country's fate on one or two individuals' prestige is very abnormal and also very dangerous. In that case, any change in this person will cause instability, and if something goes wrong, it will be uncontrollable. Deng Xiaoping did not want this situation to occur after him. Therefore, as early as November 2, 1979, he said at a senior cadre meeting: I myself have this idea, if the party allows me to retire today, I will retire immediately. This is true, not falsehood.

On September 2, 1986, during a meeting with American journalist Wallace, Deng Xiaoping said, "I advocate abolishing the tenure system and promoting the establishment of a retirement system. You also know that during a conversation with Italian journalist Farachi, I said that I was ok working until 1985, which is now more than a year ago. I am considering when to retire. Personally, I hope to retire early."

In 1987, before the Thirteenth Party Congress, Deng Xiaoping formally proposed his desire to retire in order to practice the abolition of the lifelong system of cadre leadership positions. At this time, the CPC Central Committee repeatedly considered the opinions of Deng Xiaoping himself and within and outside the party, and decided that he would resign from other positions except for remaining as the chairman of the party and the state military commission. Since then, he has no longer interfered with the central daily work, realizing semi-retirement.



The third point is to reduce deputy positions and part-time positions. In August 1980, Hua Guofeng no longer concurrently held the position of Premier, and Deng Xiaoping, Li Xiannian, Chen Yun, Wang Zhen, and Wang Renzhong no longer concurrently held deputy premiers. In 1982, during the reform of the central and state council institutions, the number of deputy positions was reduced. The number of Vice Premiers of the State Council was reduced from 13 to 2. According to statistics from 38 departments and committees, excluding the concurrently serving ministers and directors, there are 167 principal and deputy ministers, and principal and deputy directors, a reduction of 338 from the original 505, a decrease of 67%; their average age is 58, which is 6 years younger than before; the number of cadres with university-level cultural standards has increased from 37% to 52%. According to statistics from 28 departments and committees, there were originally 720 department and bureau organizations, which has now been reduced to 488, a decrease of 32%; the original number of principal and deputy bureau directors was 2,450, which has now been reduced to 1,398, a decrease of 43%; their average age was originally 59 years old, which has now decreased to 54 years old; the proportion of cadres with university-level cultural standards has increased from 36% to 49%.

The fourth is to establish an advisory system. Deng Xiaoping proposed the idea of establishing an advisory system in 1981: in addition to the Central Committee, an advisory committee should be established, to "accommodate some old comrades". Advisors do not hold current positions, so this can free up positions for younger people. At the same time, being an advisor is also a position, and its rank is not lower than that of party committee members of the same level. It is better for old comrades to move their positions to this place. Of course, being an advisor is not just about comforting, but also has the role of "passing on and helping", which is "helping onto the horse, and sending a way". Deng Xiaoping's intention in this regard is deep, because China's leadership not only has the problem of aging, but also the problem of inheritance. To solve these two problems, establishing an advisory system is a good solution. The Central Advisory Committee was formally established in September 1982, and Deng Xiaoping was elected as the director of the committee.

The establishment of the Central Advisory Committee, at a critical juncture in history, has made a historic contribution to ensure the long-term stability of the Party and the country. After the establishment of the Central Advisory Committee, it has done a lot of effective work to assist the Central Party to maintain the unity of the party and social stability, and promote reform and opening up and modernization.

Deng Xiaoping estimated that the advisory committee should be abolished after another ten years, and at most not more than 15 years. The Central Advisory Committee, from 1982 to 1992, exactly ten years. Over the past decade, the cooperation and transition between the old and new cadres of the Party have proceeded smoothly. At the same time, the Advisory Committee has existed for two terms, and the members are old, and as a transitional measure, its mission has been completed. In view of this, the Central Advisory Committee proposed to the 14th Party Congress that there will be no Central Advisory Committee after the 14th Party Congress. The Central Committee of the Communist Party of China, after careful and sufficient discussion, decided not to set up the Central Advisory Committee of the Party and the advisory committees of provinces, cities, and autonomous regions.

The above measures have created favorable conditions for the selection of middle-aged and young cadres and the realization of the "Four Transforms" target for the Party's cadre team. The Central Committee of the Communist Party of China seized this opportunity and accelerated the "Four Transforms" construction of the Party's cadre team.



From 1984 to 1985, the central government carried out concentrated adjustments of leadership at all levels. Throughout this period of over one year, there were 47 newly appointed ministers, directors, and heads of direct bureaus under the Central Government and the State Council, and 80 deputy ministers, deputy directors, and deputy directors of direct bureaus, including almost a hundred young and middle-aged cadres newly selected. Before the leadership of the 81 departments under the State Council were adjusted, the average age was 56.6. After adjustment, this dropped by 5 years, and the proportion of those under 55 rose from 10% to 30%. The percentage of those with a college degree or more increased by 27.5%, reaching 71%. During the same period, the average age of the standing committee members of provincial, autonomous regional, and municipal party committees, as well as governors, chairmen, and mayors, dropped from 57 to 53. Those under 55 made up 90%, and those with a college degree or higher rose to 80%. During the same period, after readjustments, the leadership of the nation's 3000 large and medium-sized key enterprises formed a pyramid structure with officials in their 40s as the main body. According to statistics from 2900 of these enterprises, there were 18,000 leading officials, 20% of them under age 40 and 63% aged 41 to 50, with an average age of 45. Those with a college degree or above amounted to 74%, among which 89% of factory chiefs had a college degree or above, an increase of 40% from before the adjustment, while 81% of party secretaries with a college degree or above, a 70% increase from before the adjustment. In order to accelerate the process of rejuvenation of the cadres, a national congress of the party was convened in 1985. This meeting was designed to solve the problem of aging cadres. At this meeting, 131 elderly leaders withdrew from the main leadership bodies of the party, and 179 new leaders were elected at the same time. The newly elected Central Committee members and newly appointed ministers and provincial Party secretaries were generally over 50, with some just over 40. Deng Xiaoping said that this event amounted to an unprecedented transfer of power in the history of the Communist Party of China and warranted special documentation in the history of the party.

In view of the fact that a considerable proportion of old cadres at all levels will gradually retire from their current positions over a period of time, there would be a disconnection if there were not a necessary number of new people as a reserve force. To this end, the central government decided to establish a reserve cadre system, creating a reserve cadre corps composed mainly of outstanding young and middle-aged cadres under 50, especially around 40, and putting them to the test in practice. Those with excellent performance in their duties would be promoted and appointed in a timely manner based on their real work achievements and the further test of the organization and the public.

Through strengthening the "Four Modernizations" construction of the cadre team, our cadre team began to show a new look. Under the premise of revolution, a large number of young and middle-aged cadres took up leadership positions, forming a cadre team that is equipped in echelon, an effective combination of old, middle-aged and young people, and is both rich in experience and full of vitality. Its combat effectiveness and cohesion have been strengthened. Of course, there is still a long way to go in the "Four Modernizations" construction of the cadre team, and there is still much work to do, and there are many contradictions to overcome.

3. Correcting Various Malpractices within the Party

Party style is a concentrated reflection of the spirit of the party, directly related to the image of the party among the people, and to the prestige of the party among the people. Therefore, the central party paid high attention to various malpractices that emerged in the process of reform and opening up, and made consistent efforts to seriously address them.



First, it is prohibited for party and government cadres, and their children and spouses to conduct business and create enterprises, engaging in corrupt practices. After the Third Plenary Session of the 12th Central Committee, the focus of China's reform shifted from rural to urban areas, entering a stage of comprehensive reform. Economic development entered a new round of growth period, and a business boom emerged nationwide. Some party and government organs and their cadres got involved consciously or unconsciously, becoming a peculiar spectacle in economic life. Before the comprehensive rectification of companies in 1988, there were more than 470,000 companies registered in the country. Among the many companies, there were central-level companies established by various party, government, and military departments as well as national mass organizations; "princely companies" set up in various regions; and "surplus heat companies" run by retired cadres. Quite a few of these companies did not distinguish between government and business, traded for profit, and sought huge profits. Some companies were chaotic in operation and deviated from China's actual conditions to pursue high salaries and benefits; a few people exploited their power for corruption, theft, speculation, bribery, and accepting bribes. These actions severely disturbed the integrity of government and the establishment of a sound socialist economic order, aggravated the contradiction of social distribution injustice, and affected social stability.

As for the condition of party and government organs conducting business and creating enterprises, and the serious harm brought by it, the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China has maintained a clear understanding from the beginning. On December 3, 1984, the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China and the State Council issued the "Resolution on Strictly Prohibiting Party and Government Organs and Party Cadres from Doing Business and Starting Enterprises." It clearly required that party and government leading organs at all levels, especially economic departments and their leading cadres, should correctly play the role of leading and organizing economic construction, adhere to the principle of separating duties and separating officials from business, uphold the style of being upright and just, and not allow them to use their power to operate business and start enterprises against party and state regulations for personal gain, or compete with the people for profit. The Central Committee required party and government leading organs and leading comrades at all levels to maintain a clear mind, adopt a distinct attitude, and resolutely eliminate corruption.

However, after prohibiting party and government organs and their in-service cadres from conducting business and creating enterprises, a new situation emerged where some leading cadres' children and spouses were involved in business and enterprises, which was unforeseen. After the Central Party Committee discovered this problem, on May 23, 1985, the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China and the State Council issued the "Decision on Prohibiting the Children and Spouses of Leading Cadres from Doing Business," stipulating that children and spouses of leading cadres at county level or above are not allowed to engage in business, except in state-owned, collective, and joint ventures. On July 9 of the same year, the General Office of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China and the General Office of the State Council issued a "Supplementary Notice on Party and Government Cadres Not Holding Concurrent Posts in Economic Entities," making related provisions.

For a period of time, most of the enterprises organized by party and government organs were either closed down or were de-linked from party and government organs. Most party and government cadres involved in business returned to their roles or resigned from party and government leadership positions, but corruption is like a piece of wasteland, "wildfires can not burn them all, and when the winds of spring blow, they reappear." Some party and government organs and their cadres still adopted various ways to conduct business and create enterprises; some party and government cadres continue to hold concurrent positions in companies; some family members used the connections and influence of leading cadres to conduct business and create enterprises; some serious illegal acts in business operations and running enterprises, especially those involving some leading cadres, did not receive due resolution.

In order to curb the trend of party and government organs and party and government cadres conducting business and starting enterprises, on February 4, 1986, the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China and the State Council issued the "Regulations on Further Curbing the Practice of Party and Government Organs and Party and Government Cadres Engaging in Business and Starting Enterprises" It required all levels of party committees and governments to resolutely implement central regulations and strictly enforce prohibitions. Those who refuse to implement will be dealt with severely and held accountable accordingly. Discipline inspection commissions at all levels and industrial and commercial administrative management departments must closely cooperate with organization, personnel, auditing, banking, and judicial departments to supervise the implementation.

Through the implementation of the spirit of this document, the issue of party and government organs and party and government cadres conducting business operations and establishing enterprises has been initially solved. 

Second, investigate issues of party and government cadres accepting and soliciting bribes.



In the process of prohibiting party and government officials from conducting business and engaging in corrupt acts, the issue of bribery by party and government officials was also investigated and dealt with. When the commodity economy began to become more active, but administrative actions, market actions, and business actions were not yet strictly regulated through legal forms, corruption activities such as exchanges of power and money were most likely to breed and spread. In response to the new features of party discipline and clean government construction in the new situation, on June 30, 1987, the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection issued the "Decision on Resolutely Investigating and Dealing with the Issue of Communist Party Members Accepting Bribes". The Decision pointed out: In recent years, the ugly behavior of accepting and soliciting bribes, which was common in feudal and capitalist societies, has spread in some areas and departments in our foreign economic activities. Such a situation has caused strong dissatisfaction both inside and outside the party, and domestically and internationally. This must be given high attention by the whole Party, decisive measures must be taken, and bribery and bribery violations must be severely dealt with. For this reason, the Central Discipline Inspection Commission made three decisions: (1) Communists, especially leaders, regardless of who they are, if they violate criminal laws due to bribery or bribe-seeking, they will be expelled from the party. Party members who solicit bribes in any way must voluntarily confess their problems, otherwise, regardless of the severity of the circumstances, they will be cleansed out of the party once they are found out. (2) Normal "kickbacks" in economic activities, no one is allowed to keep for any reason or excuse, all must be handed over to the state or the collective, and violators will be dealt with seriously according to party discipline and law. (3) All levels of party organizations, including disciplinary inspection agencies, must effectively strengthen the education, management, and supervision of party members, and never allow the Party's principles to be traded. Party members who have problems with solicitation and bribery must be resolutely investigated. If they are tolerated and not dealt with, the leadership responsibility of their party organization will be held accountable. After a period of effort, due to strong measures, the unhealthy trend of bribery and bribe-seeking has been basically stopped, but it has not been eradicated. Therefore, the Party Central Committee requires the whole party to persist in fighting this corruption phenomenon. 

Third, we must severely curb the unhealthy trend in the selection and appointment of cadres and the issue of going abroad. After the Third Plenary Session of the 11th Central Committee, great achievements have been made in the selection and appointment of cadres. But there are also some problems, the most prominent of which are: some leading cadres do not abide by the party's principles and violate organizational and personnel discipline. Some of them choose people on personal likes and dislikes, grudges, or use people who are beneficial to themselves, or select people from the feudal clan concept and factional concept. Some, through various means, "go through the back door" to promote their children and friends; some give positions to send people, engage in transactions; some do not follow policy regulations, fight for grades and treatment for the cadres of their own system and unit, and upgrade their subordinate units; some cadres who do organizational and personnel work abandon their duties, do not speak of principles, and even use power for personal gains; etc. In order to control the problem of improper selection and appointment of cadres, the CPC Central Committee put forwarded eight rules for the selection and appointment of cadres on January 6, 1986: (1) Leading cadres must act as models in employing people according to party principles and uphold discipline in organization and personnel work. (2) The selection and appointment of cadres must strictly follow the procedure of democratic recommendation, broad consultation, proposing selection targets; organizational and personnel departments conduct inspections, the party committee discusses collectively, and then reports according to the authority of cadres management; the higher-level organization department conducts further inspections, and then proposes to the party committee for discussion and approval. (3) The selection and appointment of leading cadres must fully follow the mass line. (4) Before deciding to promote a cadre, a strict examination must be carried out in accordance with the moral and talent conditions required by the proposed position. (5) The selection of cadres must be decided by collective discussion of the party committee, not by individual decision. (6) The promotion of cadres should be based on the best among those who have been tempered in practice. (7) It is strictly forbidden to arbitrarily set up organizations, elevate organizational specifications, and increase the number of leading cadres. (8) Organizational and personnel departments at all levels must conscientiously perform their duties and serve as advisors and assistants to the party committee.



Beginning in early 1986, the Central Organization Department conducted a large amount of investigative research, proposing some ideas and principles regarding the establishment of a system for party and government officials to avoid conflicts of interest: First, job avoidance, for officials serving in party committees, government, Discipline Inspection Commission, public security, courts, and procuratorates, their spouses, children, and relatives must not have direct hierarchical relationships with the leaders, nor should they hold leadership positions in the offices, organizations, personnel, and supervision departments of the leaders, as well as the disciplinary inspection bodies at the same level. Second, public affairs avoidance, party and government leaders should not be involved in matters regarding their own appointments, dismissals, file management and transfer, and must not instruct or imply others to exert influence or interfere. Third, regional avoidance, the county (city) party secretary, mayor, secretary of the Discipline Inspection Committee, minister of the Organization Department, director of the Personnel Bureau, director of the Public Security Bureau, president of the court, and the chief prosecutor, should not be served by local cadres.

The malpractice of officials going abroad has been a specific form of corruption that has emerged in the process of China's reform and opening up. Since the reform and opening up, the number of people traveling abroad for private and public purposes has greatly increased in China. But there have also been malpractices, such as the overbundling of party and government officials going abroad, repeated inspections, rotations, and party and government officials replacing professional officials to go abroad. Some party and government officials have used inspections as a pretext to travel abroad, causing an increase in foreign exchange expenditures.

To curb this malpractice, on July 4, 1987, the CPC Central Committee and the State Council issued the "Several Provisions on Strictly Controlling the Issue of Party and Government Officials Going Abroad", declaring that all party and government officers who are not directly related to the work of going abroad must not be granted leave. Official business or professional personnel who can complete the task of going abroad should not participate, and party and government officials should not be allowed to participate. Party and government organs and other business leaders must not publicly or suggestively ask to join the group going abroad by enterprises and institutional units on the grounds of higher or lower relationships or some working relationships.

When the CPC Central Committee was improving the party's work style and building a clean government, it promoted the improvement of the party's work style by focusing on major and influential cases. In the Jinjiang region of Fujian Province, some enterprises manufactured a large amount of fake drugs and sold them to various places through various forms of bribery. On July 13, 1985, the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection issued a public letter to the Jinjiang District Committee, requiring them to investigate and deal with this case according to party discipline and law, and report to the central authority.



On July 27, after the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection heard reports from the Fujian Provincial Committee and the Provincial Discipline Inspection Commission of the Chinese Communist Party, the involved parties were dealt with according to the law. The standing committee member and secretary of the Disciplinary Committee of Jinjiang County Committee, who participated in the manufacture and sale of counterfeit medicines and profited from it, were removed from their posts for investigation.

From early 1986 to April 1989, a few leaders of the Ministry of Railways and the Zhengzhou Railway Bureau exploited their positions due to the limited capacity of railway transport and tight carriage scheduling. They used various means to capitalize from the situation and committed corruption and bribery. Upon investigation, this case involved 48 cadres above the division level in Zhengzhou Railway Bureau of the Ministry of Railways, one deputy minister of the Ministry of Railways, 15 bureau-level cadres, and 19 department-level cadres. The total amount of criminal funds was more than 960,000 yuan. The Transportation Bureau of the Ministry of Railways violated regulations and illegally demanded and accepted a total of more than 760,000 yuan from shippers or subordinate units in various names. The Central Commission for Discipline Inspection dealt with this case seriously. The State Council revoked Luo Yunguang, the deputy minister of the Ministry of Railways who was involved in bribery and was responsible for his subordinates' corruption and bribery. The procuratorial organ initiated a criminal case against Luo Yunguang for bribery. The Central Commission for Discipline Inspection also decided to expel Xu Jun, the former director of the Transport Bureau, deputy directors Jia Shuang and Hu Jun, assistant director Wei Guofan (Bureau-level treatment), dispatcher Ma Mingshan (Bureau-level treatment) and former director of Zhengzhou Railway Bureau He Zhigui, party secretary Liu Demin, and deputy director Pan Keming. Their violation of criminal law was dealt with separately by judicial authorities.
  
From May 6 to June 2, 1987, a major forest fire broke out in the Greater Hinggan Mountains, causing considerable damage to national property and lives, with some losses impossible to calculate in financial terms. Yang Zhong, the Minister of Forestry, severely lost the party principles that party leadership cadres should have, and lacked a high degree of political responsibility for the party and the people's cause, committing serious bureaucratic errors and major dereliction of duty. Dong Zhiyong, the vice minister in charge of forest fire prevention, lacked the necessary responsibility for forest fire prevention work and committed serious bureaucratic and dereliction errors, and held significant responsibility for the Da Hinggan Mountains forest fire. With the approval of the CPC Central Committee, the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection decided to remove Yang Zhong from the position of Party Secretary of the Ministry of Forestry. The State Council proposed to the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress to revoke Yang Zhong's position as Minister of Forestry and Dong Zhiyong's position as Deputy Minister, and asked Heilongjiang Provincial Government to conduct a thorough review.

The Central Committee of the Communist Party of China has educated the whole party through major cases, causing the whole party to receive a profound party style education and promote the formation of a party style issue where everyone manages together. However, the fight against corruption and promotion of integrity is a long-term struggle that runs throughout the entire process of reform, opening up, and modernization, so there is still a long way to go in this work.

Chapter 6 The Formation of the Third Central Leading Collective and the Preliminary Establishment of Deng Xiaoping's Theoretical Directing Position
1. Full rollout of renovation and a series of 'double-hand grab' guidelines

After the 13th National Congress of the Party, the Party led the people of the whole country to continue on the road of socialism with Chinese characteristics. The economic construction since the reform and opening up has achieved great achievements, mainly reflected in: the sustained and stable growth of the national economy, the gross national product, national fiscal revenue, and the average income of urban and rural residents have doubled; serious economic and social problems that have long plagued our country have begun to be resolved or found solutions; the vast majority of the 1 billion population live in moderate prosperity, some regions are moving towards a comfortable life, even in areas where moderate prosperity has not been fully achieved, people's lives have improved: the market supply has greatly improved, basically reversing the long-term serious shortage of consumer goods in the past. From 1984 to 1988, it was a leap forward in rapid development, the gross national product increased from 717.1 billion yuan to 1,492.8 billion yuan, showing the lively situation of promoting agriculture and industry, rural and urban, reform and development, and the comprehensive national strength stepped onto a new stage.

1. Full rollout of renovation



With the deepening of reform and rapid economic development, some deep-seated contradictions in the economic system gradually emerged. At the same time, there arose a tendency to purely pursue speed and ignore objective conditions in the process of reform and construction. In August 1988, under the circumstances of a not-so-relaxed macroeconomic environment, it was decided to push through with price reform, triggering a mass buying spree and causing social tremors. A series of unstable and conflicting issues appeared in the operation of the economy. These issues manifested as “four overs and one disorder," namely excessive social demand, too rapid industrial growth, excessive credit and money supply, excessive price increases, and economic disorder. In response to these problems, the Central Party Committee made timely decisions to regulate and reorganize, and to deepen reforms: curbing overheated economy; containing inflation; seriously adjusting economic structure, allowing for significant increase in the yield of main agricultural products such as grain, cotton, and oil; and establishing and improving necessary economic regulations, as well as a macro-control system and supervision system, actively promoting the establishment of a new order of socialist commodity economy. After about a year of regulation and reorganization, the trend of overly rapid economic development and the chaotic situation in the economic sector were reversed. 

With the deepening of reform and opening up, new trends and issues have emerged in social customs amidst the highlighting of deep-seated contradictions in the economic system. Under these circumstances, the Central Party Committee clearly put forward the principle of "grasping with both hands."
2. The era's demand for the principle of “grasping with both hands"
In the process of building a socialist modernization, why do we insist on the principle of "grasping with both hands"? This is not the result of subjective imagination by someone, but the embodiment of the objective law of China's socialist modernization construction. 

The report of the 13th National Congress of the Communist Party of China explicitly stated that "grasping with both hands" is the strategic principle of building socialism with Chinese characteristics. The so-called strategic principle has two implications: one is from the importance, it means holding the two civilized constructions together, relating to the fundamental direction and fundamental road of constructing with Chinese characteristics. Because only "grasping with both hands" can holistically develop material civilization and spiritual civilization to enhance China's overall national strength. Secondly, in terms of longevity, it refers to adhering to the two civilizations during the entire primary stage of socialism, rather than just sticking to it for a while or during a certain period. If the basic line at the primary stage of socialism remains unchanged for a hundred years, the principle of "grasping with both hands" must also remain constant. Adhering to "grasping with both hands" is a profound summary of the experiences and lessons of reform and opening up. 

For the purpose of promoting the development of social production forces, it is necessary to accelerate the pace of reform. This revolution will unfold across a considerably wide field and profound depth. It relates to the future of socialism, to the interests of hundreds of millions of people, and is an extremely complex mass exploration and innovative undertaking. This will not only cause significant changes in people's economic and political lives, but also induce great changes in people's lifestyles, ways of thinking, and mental states. Therefore, some problems and passive phenomena will inevitably appear. 

From the practice of reform and opening up, the problems we face can be roughly divided into three types: The first is that in the process of transitioning between the old and new systems, some new contradictions and problems will inevitably arise. The second is that some reformers do not accurately or fully understand the central government’s policies, or due to lack of experience and insufficient consideration, some deviations and mistakes appear in bold explorations. The third is a phenomenon where some people take advantage of the loopholes in the reform to make a fortune, engage in "official speculation," "private speculation," foster unhealthy tendencies, even break the law and order, commit economic crimes and other criminal activities. For the first two situations, we must proceed with caution and increase people's awareness, especially party members and cadres, through education, to ensure the healthy progress of reform and opening up.




In the third situation, we resolutely handle according to party discipline, political discipline, and legal discipline, especially for those serious economic crimes and other criminal activities. We must punish them severely according to the law, resolutely crack down, and never be soft. Practice has proven that the deeper the reform, the more we need to "grasp both hands", otherwise, reform cannot be carried out. 
In the process of opening up to the outside world, on the one hand, we have introduced advanced technology, advanced equipment, and some management experiences and methods that are in line with socialized mass production. On the other hand, it is difficult to avoid the accompanying undesirable impacts, such as the decay of foreign capitalism and the lifestyle, certain reactionary political views and sociological theories of the bourgeoisie may infiltrate, even flood in on a massive scale, causing serious harm to our social life and people's spiritual world. For example, in politics, Western bourgeois "liberalization", "democratization", and "multi-party system" political views might infiltrate, leading to bourgeois liberalization trends; in economics, the Western bourgeoisie's pursuit of profit, harm to others for personal gain, values of money worship, fraud, smuggling and drug trafficking, bribery and corruption, speculation and other behaviors might pour in, triggering economic crimes and other criminal activities; in terms of culture, obscene videos, photos, movies, yellow literature, books, music, and toxic sociological theories from overseas may be introduced, polluting people's spiritual world and corroding people's souls. For these, Deng Xiaoping had early foresight. He said that by implementing the open door policy, we opened windows, brought in fresh air, but also brought in mosquitoes and flies. How should we deal with this? closing the door, obviously, is not a solution. The only choice is to stick to reform and opening up, while opposing bourgeois liberalization and cracking down on all kinds of criminal activities.
Therefore, in the historical process of deepening reform and opening up, adhering to the "grasp both hands" principle is an important condition to ensure the vitality of the reform and opening up, it's also vital to ensuring that the reform remains on the correct path of development.
3. Proposal and elucidation of a series of "grasp both hands" guidelines
The "grasp both hands" guideline is an important strategy of governance experienced by the Communist Party of China in the process of reform and opening up. The so-called "grasp both hands" has several different levels of connotations: first, to construct material civilization with one hand and construct spiritual civilization with the other hand; second, to grasp reform and opening up in one hand, and the four cardinal principles with the other; third, to grasp reform and opening up in one hand, and crack down on economic crimes and other criminal activities with the other; fourth, to grasp the construction of two civilizations in one hand and construct democratic legal system with the other.
The "grasp both hands" guideline was generated, developed, and enriched in the practice of reform and opening up in our country. Deng Xiaoping, the chief architect of reform and opening up, was the first leader in the party to propose and emphasize this guideline.
After the third plenary session of the 11th Central Committee, while Deng Xiaoping was taking charge of setting strategies for reform, opening up, and modernization construction, he began to pay attention to the issue of "grasp both hands". On October 30, 1979, when he delivered a speech on behalf of the Central Committee to the Fourth Congress of Chinese Literature and Art Workers, he first proposed the idea of grasping the two civilizations together. He said: "Our country has entered a new era of socialist modernization. While we raise the social productive forces on a large scale, we also reform and improve the socialist economic system and political system, develop advanced socialist democracy and sound socialist legal system. While we build a highly material civilization, we also improve the scientific and cultural level of the whole nation, develop a noble and rich cultural life, and build a highly advanced socialist spiritual civilization."
On December 25, 1980, the central work conference was held in Beijing...



Deng Xiaoping made an important speech at this meeting, systematically expounded the relationship between material and spiritual civilization, and further proposed the concept of "emphasizing both hands". He said: "The socialist country we want to build, not only needs a high degree of material civilization but also a high degree of spiritual civilization. The more the party and the government implement various economic reform and opening-up policies, the more the party members, especially the senior leaders of the party, need to give high importance and put into practice the Communist ideology and Communist morality."
On March 27, 1981, the head of the Political Department of the People's Liberation Army of China reported to Deng Xiaoping that the army insisted on "emphasizing both hands". Deng Xiaoping was very pleased with this. He said: "There is one thing that has been done well recently, which is to highlight spiritual civilization. This area has made progress and must continue to be focused on."
With the development and depth of the reform and opening up, the criminal activities in the economic field have a tendency to spread. The Central Committee of the Communist Party of China and the State Council addressed this situation, conducted investigative studies, made the "Decision on Cracking Down on Serious Criminal Activities in the Economic Field" (referred to as the "Decision"), and began to investigate and punish economic crimes.
On April 10, 1982, the Central Politburo held a special meeting to discuss this "Decision". Deng Xiaoping made an important speech at the meeting, clearly proposing the problem of insisting on "emphasizing both hands" in the reform and opening up. He said: "We need to have both hands. One hand is to insist on the policy of opening to the outside world and invigorating the domestic economy, and the other hand is to resolutely crack down on economic crimes. Without this hand to crack down on economic crimes, not only will the policy of opening up to the outside world definitely fail, but the policy of invigorating the domestic economy will also definitely fail. With this hand to crack down on economic crimes, opening up to the outside world and invigorating the domestic economy can proceed in the correct direction."
It can be seen that Deng Xiaoping’s meaning of “emphasizing both hands” has developed further, not only referring to the simultaneous development of both civilizations, but also including the two hands of reform and opening up and cracking down on economic crimes, because this is related to the success or failure of the reform and opening up policy.
In order for the entire party to deeply understand the importance, necessity, and urgency of "emphasizing both hands", Deng Xiaoping repeatedly emphasized this policy.
On July 4, 1982, the Central Military Commission held a symposium, and Deng Xiaoping proposed four guarantees for adhering to the socialist system and doing a good job in modernization construction in his speech: the first is institutional reform, the second is good socialist spiritual civilization, the third is to resolutely crack down on economic crimes, and the fourth is to build the party well and rectify the party's organization and style. He emphasized: "We must insist on opening to the outside world and invigorating the domestic economy with one hand. However, in order to ensure that this policy is truly beneficial to the four modernizations construction and does not deviate from the socialist direction during its implementation, we must also have another hand, which is to crack down on economic crimes. Without this hand, there will be no restrictions."



"The four guarantees, these four things cannot be accomplished at once, they have to be done over a long period. We don't engage in campaigns, but with the progress of the four modernizations, we have to persist in the four guarantees, not to lose a day, and turn it into a regular work and struggle."
At the 12th National Congress of the Communist Party of China held in October 1982, under the guidance of Deng Xiaoping's theory of "grasping both hands", it was explicitly decided to grasp both civilizational aspects together, establishing it as a strategic guideline for the construction of socialist modernization to guide the work of the entire party. According to the "grasping both hands" guideline, the party strengthens the construction of spiritual civilization while developing material civilization, achieving certain results.

However, due to various subjective and objective reasons, China's spiritual civilization construction has not achieved the expected effects and has even shown signs of deterioration. This is specifically manifested in:
(1) Severe spread of corruption, with the unhealthy tendency within the party continuing to spread. The central government has taken measures to investigate major cases resulting in certain effects, but the situation has not been consolidated. The weakening of ideological and political work, along with the unchanged conditions of disjointed reforms, has led to a significant increase in illegal and disorderly behaviors by some party and government officials in exchanging power for money and using power for personal gains. Decadent behaviors such as extravagant eating and drinking, accepting bribes, cronyism, and soliciting personal favors have not declined, almost becoming the norm. This forgetfulness of the purpose of serving the people wholeheartedly has caused extreme dissatisfaction among the masses.
(2) Social morality continued to decline, and many members of society lost heart. Corruption and unhealthy practices within the party were not effectively curbed, severely affecting the party's and government's prestige and cohesion among the masses. Some regions did not crackdown on feudal superstitions, group gambling, prostitution, and pimping, and the once-rampant pornography recorded on videotapes and in publications caused serious harm to the minds and spirits of young people.
(3) Education and technology encountered worrying circumstances. Due to some difficulties and problems encountered in the reform of the education and technology system, and also due to the government's insufficient financial support for educational and technological affairs, the income of a large number of educators and technologists has been low for a long time, and the phenomenon of mental and physical mismatch continued and tended to expand. The education and research conditions did not see deserved improvements, seriously affecting the enthusiasm of intellectuals, with the increasing number of talents jumping ship in some areas. Under this influence, students' enthusiasm for study declined, "scraping a pass" became the mantra of some students, and rural areas saw students dropping out of school. China's education and technological affairs are once again facing a formidable challenge.

The Central Party quickly noticed the situation of one hand being hard and the other being soft. On September 23, 1985, Deng Xiaoping sharply criticized the mistake at the National Congress of the Communist Party of China. He said: "The construction of socialist spiritual civilization was proposed early on. The central government, local governments, and the military have done a lot of work, especially the emergence of a large number of advanced figures among the masses, which has a good influence. But looking at the whole country, the effect is still not ideal. The main reason is that the whole party has not paid enough attention... These years have seen production rise, but the toxins of capitalism and feudalism have not been reduced to the lowest possible level. Some bad things that had long vanished after liberation are also resurging."



"If we don't make drastic decisions to quickly change this situation, how can the superiority of socialism be fully demonstrated? How can we effectively educate our people and future generations? Without strengthening the cultivation of spiritual civilization, the construction of material civilization would also be destroyed and misguided. The success of our revolution and construction can't be achieved by material conditions alone."
To draw the attention of the whole Party, especially the central leadership, Deng Xiaoping once again discussed the issue of "Grasping Both Hands" at the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the Central Committee on January 17, 1986. He pointed out that it is necessary to have "two hands" to achieve the four modernizations. Only one hand is not enough. The so-called two hands are one for construction and the other for legal system... We have made considerable achievements in economic construction, the situation is encouraging, this is our country's success. But what's the point of success in economy if the social atmosphere deteriorates? It can become a world of corruption, thievery, and bribery. Therefore, we cannot ignore the four insistences and dictatorship, which can ensure the smooth progress of our socialist modernization construction and effectively deal with those who sabotage the construction. He emphasized the need to promote spiritual civilization and improve the party’s conduct and social ethos from specific events; and emphasized that the higher the official, the more famous they are, the tighter their violations should be investigated and dealt with. The crimes of these people are harmful. Catching them and dealing with them will have a big effect, demonstrating our determination to overcome all obstacles in promoting spiritual civilization. He believes that if this matter is handled properly, it can truly promote reform and construction. This kind of determination, at least, requires ten years of struggle to restore the party's style and social ethos to the best times of the 1950s in the 20th century.
From the above situation, Deng Xiaoping made a huge contribution in the process of forming the party's strategic policy of "grasping both hands". In order to unwaveringly uphold the policy of "grasping both hands", he had a long struggle with various erroneous thoughts. Never compromise or give in on this major principle. In the process of struggling with erroneous thoughts, Deng Xiaoping also enriched and developed the strategic thought of "grasping both hands".
4. Gradual advancement of the "two-handed" policy in practice
The party's thoughts on "two-handedness" deepened with the reform and opening up, and continued to unfold in practice. All over the country, while focusing on promoting economic construction, they also began to strengthen "the other hand" in the field of ideology, culture, and other fields.
(1) The gradual development of socialist spiritual civilization construction. After the third plenary session of the Eleventh Central Committee, with the start of reform and opening up and the full deployment of socialist modernization construction, the Central Party Committee gradually put the task of socialist spiritual civilization construction on the agenda.
① The proposal of spiritual civilization construction thought. In March 1979, Deng Xiaoping's speech entitled "Adhere to the Four Basic Principles" at the party's theoretical work conference, proposed issues such as maintaining lofty revolutionary ideals, improving the moral level of the entire people, changing social ethos, and rectifying party style.



This has actually put forward some fundamental requirements for the construction of socialist spiritual civilization. In September of the same year, Ye Jianying first proposed the concept of socialist spiritual civilization in his speech at the celebration of the 30th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China. He said: "We must improve the education, science and culture, and health level of all our people while building a high level of material civilization, uphold lofty revolutionary ideals and revolutionary moral customs, develop a noble and colorful cultural life, and construct a high level of socialist spiritual civilization. These are important goals for our socialist modernization and necessary conditions for the realization of the four modernizations." This argument not only clearly proposed the concept of spiritual civilization, but also outlines the content of socialist spiritual civilization, including education, science, health, revolutionary ideals, revolutionary moral customs and cultural life, etc., clearly putting forward socialist spiritual civilization construction as an important goal and necessary condition for our country to realize modernization.

On 20th December 1980, at the Central Work Conference, Li Chang, one of the heads of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences at the time, wrote a letter to Deng Xiaoping specifically calling for the strengthening of the construction of socialist spiritual civilization. Deng Xiaoping wrote in his reply: Comrade Li Chang's letter raises a problem that deserves everyone's consideration. And proposed to send this letter to the comrades who participated in the Central Work Conference. On 25th December, Deng Xiaoping accepted Li Chang's suggestion in his speech at the conference and discussed the issue of building socialist spiritual civilization as an important topic, once again emphasizing its importance. He said: "The so-called spiritual civilization not only refers to education, science, culture (which is completely necessary), but also refers to communist ideology, ideals, beliefs, morals, discipline, revolutionary stance and principles, comrade-style relationships between people, etc." Here, the construction of socialist spiritual civilization has been summarized into two basic aspects, namely, the construction of scientific culture and the construction of ideological morality, thus making the connotation of spiritual civilization construction more clear.

In June 1981, the resolution on Some Historical Issues of the Party since the Founding of the Country, approved by the Sixth Plenary Session of the Eleventh Central Committee of the Party, made spiritual civilization one of the ten basic points of our country's socialist modernization construction, and for the first time in the form of a resolution of the Central Committee of the Party, defined the building of a "modern, highly democratic, and highly civilized socialist powerful country" as the Party's struggle program in the new historical period.

The gradual development of the construction of socialist spiritual civilization. In February 1981, nine units including the All-China Federation of Trade Unions, the Central Committee of the League, and the All-China Women's Federation jointly issued a proposal on the launch of civilized polite activities to respond to the call of the Central Committee to strengthen the construction of spiritual civilization, proposing to conduct civilized, polite, sanitary, orderly, moral and soul beauty, language beauty, behavior beauty, environmental beauty as content of the "five lectures and four beauty" activities among the people of the country, especially among young people. On February 28th, the Central Propaganda Department, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Health, the Public Security Department jointly issued a notice on the launch of civilized polite activities. According to the notice, the civilized polite publicity and education activities with "five lectures and four beauty" as the main content were generally carried out throughout the country.

At the beginning of 1982, the General Office of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China forwarded the report by the Central Propaganda Department on conducting in-depth "five lectures" and "four beauty" activities. In the spring of that year, in accordance with the deployment of the Central Secretariat, a "Civilized Polite Month for All" activity was launched throughout the country, focusing on improving environmental sanitation and solving the "dirty", "chaotic", and "poor" problems. In January 1983, the Central Propaganda Department and more than 20 other departments proposed that in the "five lectures and four beauty" activities, to launch an educational activity of "loving the motherland, loving socialism, loving the people", thus further enriching the content of spiritual civilization construction activities.

In September 1982, the 12th Party Congress summarized the understanding of the construction of socialist spiritual civilization by the Party since the Third Plenary Session of the 11th Central Committee, and emphasized the construction of socialist spiritual civilization from a theoretical perspective.



The Twelfth Report proposes that "socialist spiritual civilization is an important characteristic of socialism and an important manifestation of the superiority of the socialist system", and determines that while building a high level of socialist material civilization, we should strive to build a high level of socialist spiritual civilization as a strategic policy for the modernization of socialism in our country.
According to the requirements of the Twelfth Congress to strive to build a socialist spiritual civilization, in March 1983, the CPC Central Committee and the State Council established the "Five Talks, Four Beauties, and Three Loves" activity committee in the central and various provinces, autonomous regions and municipalities for the leadership work of strengthening the "Five Talks, Four Beauties, Three Loves" activities, and set up corresponding offices. In this year, the activity of "Creating a Civilized City" began to rise in Sanming City, Fujian Province. In Baoding, Hebei Province, and other places, there were activities of the army and the people building civilized towns and streets. The next year, the central relevant departments held a national "Five Talks, Four Beauties, Three Loves" work conference in Sanming city, Fujian province, summarizing the experiences of large and medium-sized cities in carrying out the "Five Talks, Four Beauties, Three Loves" activities, especially summarizing the experiences of Sanming city, requesting that the whole country learn from Sanming city to promote the construction of urban spiritual civilization. Since then, the "Five Talks, Four Beauties, Three Loves" activities have been widely organized and led throughout the country, focusing on creating a beautiful environment, establishing a good order, providing high-quality services, and building civilized units.
The formulation of the first guiding principle for the construction of spiritual civilization. After 1984, with the full unfolding of China's reform and opening up, a large number of new contradictions and problems appeared in the social field, the task of spiritual civilization construction was more prominent than before. In October 1984, the decision of the CPC Central Committee on economic system reform passed by the Third Plenary Session of the Twelfth Central Committee of the Communist Party of China set corresponding demands for the construction of spiritual civilization. The national conference of the party held in September 1985 reaffirmed the insistence on "strengthening the construction of socialist spiritual civilization while promoting the construction of material civilization" as one of the basic guiding principles that must be followed during the "75" period of national economic and social development. This was the first time that the issue of spiritual civilization construction was included in the planning of national economic and social development, demonstrating that the Party was considering the issue of spiritual civilization construction strategically and from guiding ideology. On this basis, the Sixth Plenary Session of the Twelfth Central Committee of the Communist Party of China held in September 1986, reviewed and passed the Resolution of the CPC Central Committee on the Guiding Principles for the Construction of Socialist Spiritual Civilization (referred to as "the Resolution"). This was the first programmatic document formulated by our Party on the construction of socialist spiritual civilization. The resolution clearly defines the guiding principles and basic tasks of spiritual civilization construction from the strategic height of comprehensively building socialism and the overall layout of China's modernization construction.
First, it clarifies the position and role of spiritual civilization construction in the overall layout of China's socialist modernization construction. The Resolution points out that the overall layout of China's socialist modernization construction is: focus on economic construction, unswervingly carry out economic system reform, unswervingly carry out political system reform, unswervingly strengthen spiritual civilization construction, and make these aspects cooperate with each other mutually promote.
Second, it puts forward the guiding principles and basic tasks of spiritual civilization construction. Its guiding principle is that the construction of spiritual civilization must promote socialist modernization construction; must promote comprehensive reform and the implementation of openness to the outside world; must adhere to the four basic principles. Its basic task is: to meet the needs of socialist modernization construction, to cultivate socialist citizens who have ideals, morals, culture, and discipline, and to improve the ideological, moral and scientific quality of the entire Chinese nation.
Third, it elaborates on the specific contents of spiritual civilization construction in a more realistic way.



The "Resolution" proposes to mobilize and unite all ethnic groups in the country with the common ideal of socialism with Chinese characteristics, and clarifies the relationship between our Party's highest ideal and the current common ideal of all ethnic groups in our country, dialectically combining the requirements of advancement and broadness; it proposes the basic requirements for the construction of socialist morality; stresses the need to educate all people in socialist democracy, legality and discipline, vividly reflecting the unity of revolutionary spirit, democratic spirit and scientific spirit in the socialist spiritual civilization we want to build; emphasizes the need to realistically promote the popularization and improvement of education, science and culture throughout the nation.

The "Resolution" also clarifies the guiding role of Marxism in the construction of spiritual civilization, and defines the responsibilities of Party organizations and members in the construction of spiritual civilization. The "Resolution" upholds the basic viewpoint on the construction of socialist spiritual civilization put forward by our Party since the Third Plenary Session of the Eleventh Central Committee, and at the same time, it has new developments in many aspects, marking the preliminary formation of the theory of socialist spiritual civilization construction with Chinese characteristics. This "Resolution" is of significant guiding significance for guiding and promoting the construction of socialist spiritual civilization and ensuring the smooth development of socialist modernization.

(2) Eliminating spiritual pollution in the ideological field and opposing bourgeois liberalization. In the early 1980s, in the theoretical circle, some people caused confusion on humanism and alienation issues, blaming all existing problems in society on the socialist system and the leadership of the Communist Party; in journalism, some people opposed party nature and people's nature; in the literary and art world, some people denied Mao Zedong's artistic thought and showed indifference to the slogan proposed by the Central Committee of the Communist Party of "serving art for the people and socialism", "enthusiastic about writing dark, gray, and even inventing, distorting the history and reality of the revolution", resulting in some works with serious erroneous tendencies, even vulgarity, pornography, appearing on the screen, stage, and the book market.

In response to this situation, at the Second Plenary Session of the Twelfth Central Committee of the Communist Party of China held in October 1983, Deng Xiaoping delivered a speech, "We cannot pollute our minds on the ideological front", "The essence of spiritual pollution is to spread all kinds of bourgeois and other exploiting class decadent and falling thoughts, spread distrust of socialism, communism, and the leadership of the Communist Party". "In the long run, this problem is about who will take over our cause, and it is about the fate and future of the Party and the state." This must be criticized and corrected.

In accordance with the spirit of this conference, a struggle against spiritual pollution and bourgeois liberalization was launched nationwide. After a series of work, the spread of bourgeois liberalization trend was basically curbed, and the leadership of the Communist Party of China on the ideological front was also strengthened. However, the elimination of one interference does not mean that the interference of bourgeois liberalization will no longer appear.

In 1986, Fang Lizhi, Liu Binyan, Wang Ruowang and others took the opportunity of studying political system reform to wantonly attack the leadership of the Communist Party of China and the socialist system, attracting the attention of some senior leaders of the Chinese Communist Party, especially Deng Xiaoping. In September 1986, at the Sixth Plenary Session of the 12th Central Committee of the Communist Party of China, in response to some opinions that did not approve of opposing bourgeois liberalization, Deng Xiaoping clearly stated: "I speak the most against bourgeois liberalization, and I insist the most." "What is liberalization? It's actually about guiding our current policy in China towards the capitalist path." "Liberalization itself is bourgeois. There is no proletarian or socialist liberalization. Liberalization itself is a confrontation or opposition, or a modification, against our current policy and system. "It seems that it is not only this time that we should oppose liberalization, we should talk about it for ten or twenty years."

However, Deng Xiaoping's warning did not attract enough attention, especially from the leaders who were in charge of central work at the time. In the second half of 1986, the wave of liberalization resurfaced. People like Fang Lizhi, Wang Ruowang, Liu Binyan became more active.



They pointed the finger at our country's political system, claiming that the socialist cause of the People's Republic of China since its establishment was a failure, and that the communist movement over the past thirty or so years was a failure. They completely denied the leadership of the Communist Party of China, advocated for a multi-party system, and attacked the leadership of the Communist Party of China as a continuation of feudal rule and a one-party dictatorship. They glorified bourgeois democracy and advocated for the abandonment of the people's democratic dictatorship. They continuously belittled the guiding position of Marxism in the Chinese revolution and construction.

Under this situation, party newspapers and periodicals did not take strong resistance measures, resulting in directional mistakes that allowed the tide of bourgeois liberalization to spread. In the second half of 1986, various liberalizing ideologies poured into the lecture halls of higher education institutions. According to incomplete statistics, from October to late December 1986, Peking University, Tsinghua University, and Beijing Normal University held over twenty lectures and seminars attended by these individuals. These reports had a significant influence on the thoughts of some university students.

In January 1987, several young ideological and political workers surveyed the ideological conditions of some university students in key universities in Beijing. They discovered that to varying degrees, college students were involved in discussions on political system reform and cultural reflections. The survey revealed that the university students had four dissatisfactions: First, dissatisfaction with the speed of reform. They believed that the reform was progressing too slowly, with high resistance and low returns; Second, dissatisfaction with democratic rights. They believed that workers, peasants, and intellectuals could barely exercise their democratic rights; Third, dissatisfaction with the Party's malpractices. They believed that despite major corruption cases being handled, people were still indignant at the phenomenon of seeking personal gain with power; Fourth, dissatisfaction with the implementation status of the intellectuals' policy. They felt there was more talk than action. These four dissatisfactions led to the students' four reflections: First, on the fundamental lessons of the Chinese revolution; Second, on the comparison of the two social systems; Third, on traditional Chinese culture; Fourth, on Marxism.

"Reflections" produced many negative effects, and combined with international political changes in 1986, like the exile of former President Marcos of the Philippines, the collapse of Haitian dictatorial politics, and a series of major events, all of these continually impacted students' values. They were no longer satisfied with mere changes in concepts and empty talks. Most students' emotions shifted from unease to dissatisfaction which implied impulsivity, exhibiting a strong sense of participation. In the second half of 1986, there were demonstrations of different scales appearing in many cities.

In response to the above phenomena, on December 30, 1986, Deng Xiaoping met with Hu Yaobang and other central leaders and reaffirmed, in his conversation, the adherence to the Four Cardinal Principles and opposition to bourgeois liberalization. He highlighted the extreme importance of maintaining and developing a stable and unified situation, insisting on reforms and opening up, promoting the modernization construction of socialism. He correctly set out the central policy for dealing with student disturbances at the time. The core points were, "the Four Cardinal Principles must be upheld", "The people's democratic dictatorship is indispensable", and "Without the leadership of the Communist Party of China and committing to socialism, China has no future", "Democracy can only be gradually unfolded and western protocols cannot be adopted". Firmly "oppose bourgeois liberalization", "China has hope". Deng Xiaoping's conversation further strengthened the determination of the Communist Party of China to oppose bourgeois liberalization. On January 6, 1987, campuses across Beijing relayed Deng Xiaoping's aforementioned conversation to all students and promptly dealt with a small number of student disruptions.

On January 12, the Communist Party of China Central Committee and the State Council decided to restructure the leadership of the University of Science and Technology of China. The Shanghai Municipal Commission for Discipline Inspection, the Anhui Province Commission for Discipline Inspection, and the Party Committee of the People's Daily Office made decisions on January 13, 17, and 23, respectively, to revoke Wang Ruowang, Fang Lizhi, and Liu Binyan’s Party membership.




Through a series of actions, the Party and government pacified the student protests that broke out at the end of 1986, adhered to the correct leadership of the Party on reform and opening up and socialist modernization construction, and ensured the healthy development of socialism with Chinese characteristics.
(3) Cracking down hard on criminal activities in the economic field. After the Third Plenary Session of the 11th Central Committee of the Communist Party of China, the Party and the state determined and implemented the policies centered on economic construction, opening up to the outside world and invigorating the economy internally, which led to rapid development in our country's economic construction. However, some unhealthy elements inevitably arose during the process of reform and opening up. As a result of various reasons, such as the failure of necessary management measures to keep up in a timely manner, insufficient attention to and inadequate prevention and control of economic crimes, economic criminal activities increased. Some national cadres were ideologically eroded. They exploited their power or loopholes in economic management, wantonly embezzled, stole, and defrauded national property, forming a wave of economic crimes. Accompanied by the serious development of other criminal acts, economic crimes such as smuggling, speculation, corrupt practices, theft, market disruption also grew and proliferated.
The aforementioned criminal activities in the economic field drew high attention from the central government. In January 1982, the Central Committee issued an urgent notice on cracking down on serious economic crimes, declaring this a major issue concerning the Four Modernizations and the survival of the state. On March 8, the 22nd meeting of the Standing Committee of the Fifth National People's Congress passed the "Decision On Severely Punishing Serious Economic Criminals", which intensified the punishment for serious economic crimes, including sentencing especially serious and particularly malignant economic criminals to death. On April 10, Deng Xiaoping pointed out at a meeting of the Political Bureau of the Central Committee to discuss "On Cracking Down on Serious Crimes in the Economic Field": Cracking down on economic crimes is a long-term and regular struggle accompanying the Four Modernizations. "We need two hands. One hand is to persist in opening up to the outside world and invigorating the economy domestically, the other hand is to decisively strike against economic criminal activities. Without the latter, not only would our policy of opening up to the outside world surely fail, but also our policy of invigorating the domestic economy would surely fail. With the latter, opening up to the outside world and invigorating the domestic economy can proceed in the right direction." "The trend is very strong. If our Party does not pay serious attention and decisively curb this trend, then indeed the issue of whether our Party and state will 'change face' will arise."
On April 13, 1982, the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China and the State Council publicized the "Decision On Cracking Down on Serious Crimes In The Economic Field", sharply pointing out: Cracking down on serious criminal activities in the economic field and conducting a struggle against corruption and degeneration concern the success or failure of our country's socialist modernization construction, and the rise and fall of our Party and state. This struggle is bound to be long-term and persistent. In accordance with the central government's requirements, a large-scale campaign against crime in the economic field was carried out nationwide. As indicated in the report "On Cracking Down on Serious Crimes in the Economic Field" submitted by the Central Discipline Inspection Commission of the Communist Party of China to the Standing Committee of the Sixth National People's Congress in July 1983: From January 1982 to the end of April 1983, the country uncovered and prosecuted approximately 192,000 cases of various economic crimes, involving more than 71,000 party members; over 131,000 cases were closed, nearly 30,000 people were sentenced according to law, and more than 8,500 party members involved in these cases were expelled from the party; nationwide, 24,400 people surrendered themselves and confessed to various economic illegalities and crimes; illegal gains and loot worth over 410 million yuan were recovered. On May 31, Wan Li spoke at a meeting of leading cadres from Central Party and government agencies held by the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection, requiring all units to seriously undertake the campaign against serious crimes in the economic field.



The Central Commission for Discipline Inspection (CCDI) has dispatched 151 cadres at the level of department or bureau or above to various regions to enhance and strengthen the investigation force against crimes in the economic zone, directly participating in the investigation and handling of major cases. 
According to the central government's plans, the CCDI has taken resolute actions against some major cases that violated Party discipline and had a severe impact. At that time, the notable ones were the "Jinjiang fake medicine" case in Fujian and the "Hainan Island reselling imported cars" case.
In Chenkang Town, Jinjiang County, Jinjiang Region (now Quanzhou City), some people marketed a Tremella fuciformis beverage as a cold remedy in order to boost sales. They labeled it as "nourishes yin and moistens lungs, mainly used for treating asthenia and cough," and falsely used the approval number of the pharmaceutical regulatory department for promotion in and outside the province. From September 1982 to April 1985, illegal elements from 59 township enterprises faked more than 170 approval numbers from the health administrative department, 62 of which were frequently used, manufacturing more than 100 types of counterfeit drugs, with a total production of over 100,000 boxes, worth about 40 million RMB. These counterfeit drugs were sold to 28 provinces (regions) nationwide, causing significant national uproar and attracting the attention of senior central government officials. 
On July 13, 1985, the CCDI issued an open letter to the Jinjiang District Committee and Executive Office Party Group, requesting legal actions be taken against the massive production of counterfeit drugs by various enterprises and for using various bribery measures to sell the drugs in different regions. On July 27, the Standing Committee of the CCDI heard reports from the Fujian Provincial Party Committee and Provincial Discipline Inspection Commission, punished the parties involved, decided to dismiss and investigate the standing committee and secretary of the Jinjiang County Discipline Inspection Commission who profited from the manufacturing and sale of the counterfeit drugs. In September 1986, the Fujian Provincial High People's Court and Quanzhou City Intermediate People's Court legally sentenced the criminals involved in the "Jinjiang fake drugs case." Three were sentenced to more than 10 years of fixed-term imprisonment, seven were sentenced to fixed-term imprisonment ranging from 1.5 years to 8 years, four were granted probation, and three were exempted from criminal punishment.
From January 1, 1984, to March 5, 1985, the leaders of the Hainan District Party Committee and District Government, abusing the autonomy granted by the central government, imported a large amount of nationally controlled goods for resale. More than ten thousand imported cars were resold out of the island; most other imported goods were also resold off the island. To import cars and other goods, Hainan Island officials violated state foreign exchange regulations, illegally purchasing 570 million USD in foreign exchange from outside the island at a high price. This number is ten times the amount of foreign exchange that the state allowed Hainan to retain. Concurrently, loans used for importing cars and other goods accumulated up to 42.1 billion RMB, 10 billion more than the total industrial and agricultural output value of Hainan in 1984.
The enactment of these economic crime cases has powerfully upheld the seriousness of party discipline and national law, and to a certain extent, ensured the healthy development of the reform, opening up, and modernization construction.



II. The "June Fourth" Political Turmoil and The Formation of the Third Generation of Central Leadership

Just when in-depth work was needed to govern the economic environment and rectify the order of the economy, political turmoil occurred in Beijing and elsewhere at the turn of spring and summer in 1989. The central leadership of the Party swiftly took decisive measures to quell this unrest. For a long time, some political forces in Western countries, through various channels, have been infiltrating socialist countries ideologically and politically, supporting various anti-communist and antisocialist activities. After some Eastern European socialist countries experienced turbulence, some Western countries intensified their peaceful evolution in China through various channels. Additionally, for some time, a few leaders within the Party lacked consistency in adhering to the Four Cardinal Principles in the process of promoting economic reform and development, and the political ideology work had been weakened. The image of the Party among the people was damaged by the fairly severe corruption of a few cadres. At the turn of spring and summer in 1989, an extremely small number of people took advantage of the existing problems within the Party and the displeasure of the masses towards price hikes, especially against some instances of cadre corruption, stirring up activities against Communist Party leadership and the socialist regime. They exploited the public mourning of Hu Yaobang, spread rampant rumours, and stirred up a planned, organized, premeditated anti-party and antisocialist disturbance, inciting some clueless citizens to occupy Tiananmen Square and assault the critical departments of the Party and government authorities. With the firm and staunch support from senior revolutionaries like Deng Xiaoping, the Central Politburo, relying on the people, unequivocally opposed the disturbance, quelling the political turmoil, safeguarding the political regime of the socialist state, and defending the fundamental interests of the people. 

This political turmoil served as a profound education for the Party and the people. On June 9, 1989, Deng Xiaoping stressed in a speech: The nature of this event is the opposition between bourgeois liberalization and the adherence to the Four Cardinal Principles. This turbulence was bound to come, as decided by the international macro environment and the microclimate of China, not by the will of the people. The occurrence of this event is worth our contemplation, prompting us to reflect on our past and future with a cool head. He proposed two issues that needed serious consideration: First, was the strategy, guideline, and policy, including the “Troika” development strategy formulated at the Third Plenary Session of the 11th CPC Central Committee, correct? Would the occurrence of this turmoil cast doubt on their correctness? Should we continue to hold them as our future goals? Second, was the Thirteenth National Congress’s summary of “one centre, two basic points” correct? Is it wrong to adhere to the four balances and reform and opening up? To these two questions, he answered categorically that the policies formulated at the Third Plenary Session of the 11th CPC Central Committee, including our "Troika" development strategy, were correct. The occurrence of this event cannot be used as a basis to say that our strategic goals were wrong. The principle of  "one centre, two basic points" was not wrong. It is not wrong to maintain balance and to reform and open up. Our direction, principles, and policies should be steadfastly implemented. "If there is any mistake, it is that the adherence to the Four Cardinal Principles was not consistent enough"; "If there is not enough, it is that there is not enough reform and opening up". 

This turmoil severely interfered with the progress of reform, opening up, and modernization, and exposed existing issues within the leadership of the Party Central Committee, which needed to be reorganized. Even before the unrest had been quelled, Deng Xiaoping proposed to change the central leadership, stating that the new central leadership organ should give the people a feeling of rejuvenation, as a hopeful leading group committed to reform. They should be people who are recognized by the masses as adherent to the path of reform and opening up and who have political achievements. This group should be able to gain public trust, trustworthy both within the party and to the people. According to Deng Xiaoping’s opinion, after considering it fully, Jiang Zemin, a member of the Central Politburo and secretary of the Shanghai Municipal Committee of the Communist Party of China, was selected as the core of the new generation of central leadership..




The Fourth Plenary Session of the 13th Central Committee of the Party held in late June 1989 analyzed the nature and causes of the political turmoil that had occurred in the country in the preceding two months, initially summarized the lessons learned, and clarified the party's policy and tasks at that time and for a period thereafter. In view of the serious errors committed by Zhao Ziyang at the critical moment of stopping the unrest, the plenary session decided to revoke all his internal leadership positions within the party and made adjustments to some members of the central leadership structure. The plenary elected Jiang Zemin as the General Secretary of the Central Committee and formed a new Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the Central Committee. The plenary emphasized the need to continue to firmly implement the party's line, principles and policies since the Third Plenary Session of the Eleventh Central Committee, and to firmly implement the party's basic line of "one center, two basic points" as defined at the 13th National Party Congress; it explicitly declared that this basic line and the decisions of the 13th National Party Congress would never waver due to political upheaval, thus enabling the party to maintain the correct course of the socialist cause with Chinese characteristics amid raging waves.

Quelling the political storm in the country is essentially China's domestic affairs. However, some Western countries took the opportunity to impose sanctions on China in an attempt to force China to change its socialist developmental direction. At this pivotal historical moment facing tremendous pressure both domestically and internationally, the central leadership group, with Jiang Zemin at the core, undertook the significant responsibility of leading the party and country. They led the whole party and the people of all nationalities across the country to withstand the pressure, and firmly adhere to the party's basic line at the primary stage of socialism. The Central Party Committee took a series of significant measures, promptly restored normal production and social order in Beijing and other places, maintained the stability of the national political situation, handled several major cases, and vigorously punished corruption. To overcome the phenomenon of "one hand hard, one hand soft", it demanded the full concentration of party organizations at all levels on party building and the reinforcement of leadership over propaganda and ideological work. It continued to implement the principle of rectification, promoting reform and opening up while developing the economy, which gradually improved the national economic situation.

In light of the effective work undertaken by the new central leadership group, Deng Xiaoping proposed to the Political Bureau of the Central Committee his resignation from the position of Chairman of the Central Military Commission of the Chinese Communist Party. The Fifth Plenary Session of the 13th Central Committee of the Party, held in November 1989, approved Deng's request. The plenary expressed high respect for Deng Xiaoping's decision to resign from his current position in line with the fundamental interests of the party and country, setting an example for the abolition of lifelong tenure for leadership positions. The plenary stressed that "Comrade Deng Xiaoping's series of viewpoints and theories based on the principle of combining Marxist-Leninist principles with China's actual conditions, especially his basic theory of socialism with Chinese characteristics, is an important part of Mao Zedong Thought, and an inheritance and development of Mao Zedong Thought under new historical conditions. It is the treasured mental wealth of the Chinese Communist Party and the Chinese people." The entire party must carefully study Comrade Deng Xiaoping's works and let them play a significant guiding role in the great progress of China's socialist modernization.

From the Fourth to the Fifth Plenary Sessions of the 13th Central Committee of the Party, the smooth transition from the second generation of central leadership with Deng Xiaoping at the core to the third generation of central leadership with Jiang Zemin at the core ensured the stability, continuity of the party's policy, and the country's stability, enabling continued advancement of the reform and opening up, and socialist modernization. This fully demonstrated the party's political maturity and strong organizational strength, and also provides the most important political and organizational assurance for maintaining the long-term stability of the country, advancing the great cause of socialism with Chinese characteristics into the 21st century.

III. Publication of Deng Xiaoping's Southern Tour speeches and preliminary establishment of Deng Xiaoping Theory's guiding status

With the advent of the 1990s, the theoretical documents exploring socialist experiences saw dramatic changes among Eastern European socialist countries, the Soviet Union proclaimed its dissolution, and some countries around China, especially some countries and regions in Southeast Asia, showcased a momentum for accelerated economic development. The world landscape showed trends of political multipolarity and economic globalization. This brought severe challenges to China but also presented new development opportunities.



The governance rectification that began in 1988, despite achieving significant results in stabilizing the economy, resulted in a slowdown in the rate of economic development. In 1989 and 1990, the growth rates of our country's economy were 4.1% and 3.8% respectively. Deng Xiaoping was deeply concerned about this. On March 3, 1990, he pointed out in a conversation with central leaders: We need to pay special attention to the problem of the economic growth rate slipping. "This is not just an economic issue, it is actually a political issue." "Whether China can withstand the pressure of hegemony and power politics, stick to our socialist system, the key is whether we can strive for a faster growth rate, and implement our development strategy." Faced with complex domestic and international situations, some people were ideologically confused, doubted China's reform and opening up, and lacked confidence in the future of socialism.

1. The Publication of Deng Xiaoping's Southern Talk

At a critical juncture in the historical development of the Party and the country, from January 18 to February 21, 1992, 88-year-old Deng Xiaoping, after inspecting Wuchang, Shenzhen, Zhuhai, Shanghai and other places, made very important speeches. He profoundly summarized the experience of the Party's leadership in exploring the path of socialism with Chinese characteristics since the Third Plenary Session of the 11th Central Committee of the Party, and clearly answered many major theoretical and policy issues that have often been troubling and restraining people's thoughts since the reform and opening up. The Southern Talk made the following ten important points clear:

(1) We must unswervingly adhere to the basic line that will guide us for 100 years, and propose that reform is also a liberation of productivity. Deng Xiaoping pointed out that the revolution is to liberate productivity, and reform is also to liberate productivity. In the past, only the development of productivity under socialist conditions was talked about, but there was no mention of liberating productivity through reform, which was incomplete. We should talk about both liberating and developing productivity. He emphasized that we must adhere to the line, principles, and policies since the Third Plenary Session of the 11th Central Committee of the Party, and the key is to adhere to the "one center, two basic points". "Adhere to socialism, reform and opening up, economic development, and improve people's livelihoods, or else there is only a dead end. The basic line must be followed for a hundred years without wavering. Only by sticking to this line, the people will believe and support you. Whoever tries to change the line, principles, and policies since the Third Plenary Session, the people will not agree and he will be overthrown."

(2) Deng Xiaoping proposed the "Three Favorable" standards for judging whether the reform and opening up is correct. The 13th National Congress of the Party played a major role in adhering to the Party's basic line of focusing on economic construction, based on the "productivity standard" proposed by Mao Zedong in "On The People's Democratic Dictatorship". In order to continue to dispel people's ideological doubts about reform and opening up, Deng Xiaoping further pointed out in his Southern Talk that we should take bigger steps and dare to experiment in reforming and opening up. If it's feasible, dare to try, dare to take risks.



The crucial experience of Shenzhen is daring to break new ground. Who would dare to claim that they could accomplish anything with absolute certainty, without taking any risks? If one is not bold in pushing reform and opening up, it simply means they fear an overabundance of capitalist elements and taking a capitalist path. The crux is whether we "favor capitalism" or "favor socialism". In response to debates over the establishment of special economic zones for a period of time, he clearly stated: "The criteria for judgment should primarily be whether it's conducive to the development of the productive forces of socialist society, whether it strengthens the comprehensive national strength of socialist countries, and whether it improves people's standard of living." "The Special Economic Zones favor 'socialism' and not 'capitalism'." He also stated that differing opinions on policies of reform and opening up should be allowed to be expressed, but debates should not be engaged in, for they would consume all the time and get nothing done.

(3) It was clearly stated that planning and markets are not the essential differences between socialism and capitalism; socialism can engage in market economics. As early as 1979, Deng Xiaoping pointed out that it cannot be said that the market economy only exists in capitalist societies, socialism can also engage in market economics. Since then, he has been paying attention to and researching this very issue, speaking about it dozens of times, believing that there is no fundamental contradiction between socialism and market economy, "Do not think that engaging slightly in market economy is taking the capitalist road, that's not the case", "If it serves socialism, then it's socialism's". In his talks in the south, he emphasized again: "Whether planning or marketing is more prevalent is not the essential difference between socialism and capitalism. Planned economy does not equate to socialism; capitalism also involves planning. Market economy does not equate with capitalism; socialism also has a market. Planning and markets are both economic tools.” And he requested that socialism should boldy absorb and draw lessons from advanced practices and management techniques reflecting the laws of modern socialized production from all countries in the world, including capitalist developed countries. This standpoint had a decisive influence in, at the party's 14th National Congress, formally proposing the theory of a socialist market economy and finally enabling our country to transition from a planned economy to a socialist market economy.

(4) For the first time, the essential question about socialism was clearly raised, correcting unscientific understandings of the essence of socialism. What is the essence of socialism? For the 160 years since utopian socialism to scientific socialism, Communists have pursued socialism as an ideal but have never posed such a question, and the "original works" of Marxism-Leninism have not defined this question either. People are accustomed to thinking that socialism is public ownership, distribution according to labor input, planned economy, proletarian dictatorship, guidance by Marxism, and so on. For the construction of socialism, these elements are undoubtedly all very important, but to see them as understanding the essence of socialism is not scientific. This is because it is not in line with the general principles of defining social forms from both aspects of the contradiction between productive forces and relations of production from the perspective of historical materialism, and it deviates from the understanding of the basic contradiction in socialist society—the contradiction between relations of production and productive forces and the contradiction between the superstructure and the economic base. These elements, which are vaguely seen as the essence of socialism, all belong to the aspects of relations of production and superstructure and completely neglect the requirement to develop productive forces. This is one of the epistemological roots of past mistakes in exploring socialism. In the mid-1980s, Deng Xiaoping pondered the lessons learned from our country's construction of socialism and once pointed out earnestly: "Although we now call ourselves socialists, we are actually not up to par." One important reason was that we did not concentrate on the fundamental task of socialism—to develop productive forces.



With such a painful lesson, Deng Xiaoping first raised the issue of the nature of socialism in his talks in the south. He pointed out: "The essence of socialism is to liberate and develop productivity, eliminate exploitation, eliminate polarization, and ultimately achieve common prosperity." This new definition of the essence of socialism highlights the ultimate decisive role of productivity and the contradictory movement of productivity and productive relations, between the economic base and the superstructure, thereby laying the theoretical foundation for the fundamental task of socialism and the number one task proposed by the Party.
(5) He emphasized seizing the opportunity to develop oneself & the key is to develop the economy, proposing the important idea that "development is the hard truth". Deng Xiaoping repeatedly emphasized: Now, the economic development of some countries and regions around us is faster than ours. If we don't develop or develop too slowly, there will be problems when the people compare. Therefore, if we can develop, we should not obstruct it, and those with conditions should try to speed up as much as possible. As long as it is beneficial and quality-oriented, focused on export-oriented economy, there is nothing to worry about. The important thing is to seize the opportunity. China's economic development must strive to step up a level every few years. Of course, we are not encouraging unrealistic high speed, but we still need to be down-to-earth, pursue benefits and develop steadily and in a coordinated manner. He pointed out clearly: "For a big country like us in development, the economy needs to develop a little faster, it can't always be so calm and stable. We need to pay attention to economic stability and coordinated development, but stability and coordination are relative, not absolute. Development is the hard truth." Developing the economy not only needs to seize opportunities, but also needs to rely on science and education. We need to promote science, and rely on science for hope.
(6) He proposed that China should be on guard against the right, but mainly to prevent the "left" strategic estimate. Since the reform and opening up, Deng Xiaoping has always adhered to the struggle on two fronts, opposing the "left" and the wrong tendencies of the right, but he has pointed out many times that he mainly opposes the "left". This is stated more clearly in this southern talk: "Now, there are right and 'left' things affecting us, but the deeply rooted ones are still 'left' things. Some theorists, politicians, those who scare people with big hats, are not right, but are 'left'. 'Left' has a revolutionary color, it seems the more 'left', the more revolutionary. 'Left' things in the history of our party are scary! A good thing, a good thing, was ruined by him at once. The right can bury socialism, and the 'left' can also bury socialism. China should be vigilant about the right, but mainly to prevent the 'left'." This deafening conclusion is a profound summary of the party's historical experience and the historical experience of other socialist countries, as well as the main tendencies that have emerged since the reform and opening up.



It is of great significance for our Party to adhere to the basic line for 100 years without wavering and to keep a clear mind in strategic estimates.
(7) It is proposed to adhere to "grasping with both hands," and both hands must be firm. Deng Xiaoping, in view of the political turmoil that occurred in the 1980s, clearly pointed out: "We must adhere to grasping with both hands, one hand grasping reform and opening up, and the other hand cracking down on all kinds of criminal activities. Both of these hands must be firm. Cracking down on all kinds of criminal activities, eliminating all kinds of ugly phenomena, you can't be soft." Regarding Guangdong's goal of catching up with the "Four Little Dragons" in Asia in 20 years, he told comrades in Guangdong that not only the economy needs to rise, but the social order and social atmosphere also need to be well managed. "We must surpass them in building both civilizations, and this is socialism with Chinese characteristics." He emphasized that throughout the process of reform and opening up, corruption must be opposed. For cadres and members of the Communist Party, building a clean government should be treated as a major task. It is still necessary to rely on a legal system, as the legal system is more reliable. As long as our productivity develops, maintains a certain economic growth rate, and adheres to grasping with both hands, the construction of socialist spiritual civilization can be promoted.
(8) It emphasizes that the correct political line must be guaranteed by the correct organizational line, and the key to the country's long-term stability is to manage well within the Communist Party. Deng Xiaoping emphasized during the transition of the new and old leadership collective of the Party: "The key to China's issue lies in the Communist Party having a good Politburo, especially a good Politburo Standing Committee. As long as this link does not have a problem, China will be as solid as a rock." "The most important thing is to have a unified leading core. If it is maintained for fifty years, sixty years, socialist China will be invincible." In the Southern Dialogues, he further talked about this issue from the relationship between the political line and the organizational line, pointing out: "Whether China can do well, whether socialism and reform and opening can persist, whether the economy can develop faster, and whether the country can be stable for a long time depends, in a certain sense, on people." We must pay attention to cultivating people, select people who are both virtuous and capable into the team according to the standards of "revolutionization, youthfulness, intellectualization, and specialization". The imperialist hope for peaceful evolution is placed on the future generations of our country. Therefore, we should educate our army well, educate the dictatorship apparatus well, educate the members of the Communist Party well, and educate the people and the youth well. "If China has a problem, it is still within the Communist Party. We need to be clear about this...we say that the Party's basic line has to last a hundred years, and to be stable for a long time, we need to rely on this one."



(9) Emphasizing the consolidation and development of the socialist system requires a very long historical stage. Whether the socialist society is a short transition stage or a long historical period is a problem that has not been solved from Marx to Lenin, and Mao Zedong did not really solve this problem. According to previous views, although socialism is also the lower stage of communism, due to the lack of understanding of the long-term nature of communism, more is said about the transition of socialism. This is a theoretical root cause of all socialist countries' eagerness for quick success errors. After China's three-year "Great Leap Forward", Mao Zedong also talked about socialism as a relatively long historical period, but he mainly spoke from the perspective of class struggle. Deng Xiaoping summarized the historical lessons of socialist development, admonishing the whole party with a politician's strategic thinking and a historian's deep eyesight: "We have been building socialism for only a few decades, and we are still in the initial stage. Consolidation and development of the socialist system still require A very long historical stage requires several generations of us, even dozens of generations, to strive tirelessly. We must not take it lightly."

(10) Made a scientific summary of the essence of Marxism and emphasized using historical materialism to educate young people about the laws of human social development. Although Deng Xiaoping said that he had not read many books, he had rich political wisdom and high theoretical comprehension, and scientifically summarized the essence of Marxism, he pointed out: "Seeking truth from facts is the essence of Marxism. We should advocate this, not stick to the book. Our success in reform and opening up is not based on the book, but on practice, based on seeking truth from facts." "We have talked about Marxism all our lives, in fact, Marxism is not esoteric. Marxism is a very ordinary thing, a very ordinary truth." Based on this, he proposed "learn from Marx and Lenin need to be refined and useful". He emphasized that Marxism is a science, using historical materialism to reveal the laws of human social development, and more people who agree with Marxism will appear in the world. After a long-term development process, socialism will inevitably replace capitalism, which is the irreversible overall trend of social historical development. Some countries have serious twists and turns, and socialism seems to have been weakened, but the people have been tested and learned from it, which will promote the development of socialism in a healthier direction. We have to continue to move forward on the road of building socialism with Chinese characteristics. "If it takes a hundred years from the founding of the People's Republic to build our country into a moderately advanced country, it would be amazing! From now until the middle of the next century, it will be a very important period and we have to work hard. We shoulder heavy responsibilities!"

Deng Xiaoping's Southern Talk, the content is extremely rich, in a sense, it is both the concentrated embodiment of Deng Xiaoping's reform and opening up thoughts, and it also marks the development of his ideological theory to a new height. This is mainly manifested in two aspects: on the one hand, the Southern Talk is a systematic writing, not only the content of the argument has a system structure, answers many major issues such as what is socialism and how to build socialism in a more comprehensive way, and compared with his other writings, it is more of a comprehensive theoretical document that forms a relatively complete system of personal thought. On the other hand, the Southern Talk has brought many new meanings to the theory of socialism with Chinese characteristics. The above ten views are not only the new development of the theory of socialism with Chinese characteristics, but also reflect the new realm it has reached.



Not only does it have profound discussions and sharp ideas with solid theoretical strength, but the language expression is also vivid and thorough, with an engaging novelty. The Southern Tour Speeches are an important part of Deng Xiaoping's enrichment and development of the theory of socialism with Chinese characteristics in his later years. It is also a "manifesto that promotes the reform and opening up and modernization construction to a new stage with the liberation of thought and seeking truth from facts".
2.Formation of Deng Xiaoping's Theory and Its Initial Establishment as Guiding Status
In mid-October 1992, the 14th National Congress of the Communist Party was held. The main tasks of the congress were: to take Deng Xiaoping's theory of building socialism with Chinese characteristics as the guidance, to fully summarize the great practice and basic experience of 14 years of reform and opening up, to determine the strategic deployment for the next period, to seize the opportunity, to accelerate the pace of reform and opening up, and modernization construction, to win greater victories in the cause of socialism with Chinese characteristics. The congress made three historically significant decisions: Firstly, Deng Xiaoping's theory of building socialism with Chinese characteristics has preliminarily established its guiding status in the whole party. Secondly, the goal of China's economic system reform is to establish a socialist market economic system. Thirdly, the Party is urged to seize the opportunity, accelerate development, and concentrate on improving the economy. Marked by Deng Xiaoping's Southern Tour Speeches and the 14th National Congress, the cause of socialist reform, opening up, and modernization construction, entered a new stage of development. 
Since the 3rd Plenary Session of the 11th Central Committee, the Party has continuously enriched its understanding of the road to socialism with Chinese characteristics in the practice of reform and opening up, gradually forming the theory of socialism with Chinese characteristics. The development of this theory has primarily gone through three phases: 
The first phase is from the 3rd Plenary Session of the 11th Central Committee at the end of 1978 to the 12th National Congress of the Party in 1982. Deng Xiaoping's theory of building socialism with Chinese characteristics began to take shape during the process of correcting errors and initiating reforms. Since the 3rd Plenary Session of the 11th Central Committee, the Communist Party of China has seriously rectified and corrected past "leftist" errors, successfully completed the rectification of guiding thoughts, and recorrectly combined the basic principles of Marxism with the practice of socialist construction in China. During this process, under the guidance of Deng Xiaoping, a series of new guiding principles and policies on the construction of socialism in China were put forth, forming new understandings of what socialism is and how to build socialism. In 1981, the "Resolution on Certain Historical Issues of the Party since the Founding of the People's Republic" summed up these new cognitive achievements as ten main viewpoints, which can be considered as the rudiment of Deng Xiaoping's theory of building socialism with Chinese characteristics. At the 12th National Congress of the Party, Deng Xiaoping proposed "building socialism with Chinese characteristics", providing a clear theme for the second historic leap in the sinicization of Marxism and its theoretical results. 
The second phase is from the 12th National Congress of the Party in 1982 to the 13th National Congress of the Party in 1987. Deng Xiaoping's theory of building socialism with Chinese characteristics formed its basic outline amidst the comprehensive unfolding of reform and opening up. The comprehensive unfolding of the reform and opening up, spanning from agricultural reform to urban reform, from economic system reform to multi-faceted system reforms, from domestic rejuvenation to external opening up, experienced a grand development process. The deepening of the reform urgently demanded theoretical guidance. During this time, Deng Xiaoping repeatedly raised the primary basic theoretical issue of "what is socialism and how to build socialism". In October 1984, the "Resolution on Economic System Reform" adopted at the 3rd Plenary Session of the 12th Central Committee proposed that the socialist economy is a "planned commodity economy based on public ownership", breaking through the traditional concept that the planned economy is opposed to the commodity economy. In 1987, the 13th National Congress of the Party systematically expounded the theory of the initial stage of socialism.



It, along with the theory of socialist commodity economy, has become the two new achievements in the process of sinicization of Marxism, providing a powerful theoretical guide for reform and opening up. At the thirteenth National Congress of the Party, the party highly praised the great significance of the path of socialism with Chinese characteristics since the third plenary session of the eleventh Central Committee of the Party, referring to it as the second historic leap of the combination of Marxism with Chinese practice, and referred the theoretical results of this leap as "The Theory of Building Socialism with Chinese Characteristics". The thirteenth National Congress of the Party outlined twelve main views of this theory, which are: (1) The view about liberating the mind, seeking truth from facts, and using practice as the only criterion for testing the truth; (2) The view that building socialism must be based on the national conditions of the country and follow its own path; (3) The view that under economically and culturally backward conditions, building socialism must go through a long initial stage; (4) The view the primary task of the socialist society is to develop productive forces and strive for modernization; (5) The view that socialist economy is a planned commodity economy; (6) The view that reform is the important driving force for the development of socialist society and opening to the outside world is a necessary condition for realizing socialist modernization; (7) The view that socialist democracy and socialist cultural and ethical progress are important features of socialism; (8) The view of combining and the four basic principles with the overall guideline of reform and opening, both are indispensable; (9) The view of achieving national unification by using "one country, two systems"; (10) The view that the integrity and style of the ruling party is related to the survival of the party; (11) The view of developing relations with foreign communist parties and other parties according to the principles of independence, complete equality, mutual respect, and non-interference in internal affairs; (12) The view that peace and development are the themes of the contemporary world. "These views form the framework of the theory of building socialism with Chinese characteristics, preliminarily answering the basic problems of the phase, tasks, driving forces, conditions, layout, and international environment of our country's socialist construction, and outlining our scientific path forward."

The third stage is from the thirteenth National Congress of the Party to the fourteenth National Congress of the Party, which is the stage of maturity for Deng Xiaoping's theory of building socialism with Chinese characteristics and forming a scientific system. In the late 1980s and early 1990s, China's reform entered a crucial stage, and severe political storms occurred domestically and internationally. At this major historical juncture, the Communist Party of China relied closely on the people, adhered unswervingly to the four basic principles, defended the country's independence, security, and stability, unswervingly focused on economic construction, and firmly promoted reform and opening up. The cause of building socialism with Chinese characteristics not only withstood the severe test smoothly but also the theory guiding this cause - Deng Xiaoping's theory of building socialism with Chinese characteristics, also further improved.

In 1990, the "Proposal on Formulating the Ten-Year Plan for National Economic and Social Development and the 'Eighth Five-Year' Plan" approved by the seventh plenary session of the thirteenth Central Committee of the Party summarized the basic theory and basic practice of building socialism with Chinese characteristics since the third plenary session of the eleventh Central Committee of the Party into twelve principles.



These twelve principles are: (1) Persisting in the people's democratic dictatorship system, led by the working class, and based on the alliance between workers and peasants; (2) Adhering to the development of social productivity as the fundamental task of socialism; (3) Continuously perfecting the economic, political, and other management systems of socialism through reform; (4) Adopting various forms of fostering foreign economic and trade relations, utilizing foreign capital, and introducing advanced technology to continuously expand outward openness; (5) Persisting in the co-existence of the socialist public ownership as the main body and various other economic components; (6) Actively developing a planned commodity economy in socialism; (7) Implementing a distribution system that is primarily based on labor, supplemented by other forms of distribution; (8) Adhering to the guidance of Marxism-Leninism and Mao Zedong Thought, continuously improving the ideological, moral, and cultural qualities of the entire nation, and building a socialist spiritual civilization; (9) Establishing and developing socialist ethnic relations of equality, mutual assistance, unity and cooperation, and common prosperity, adhering to and improving the system of ethnic regional autonomy; (10) Pursuing the conception and practice of "one country, two systems" to promote the gradual realization of the great cause of national unification; (11) Persisting in an independent and peaceful foreign policy, developing friendly relations with all countries based on the five principles of peaceful coexistence; (12) Persisting in the leadership of the Communist Party, continuously improving the Party's leadership system, style, and methods, making the Party always the strong leading core of the socialist cause. Some of these principles have been consistently upheld by the Party for decades and have new developments under new historical conditions; Some summarize the fresh experience of modernization construction and reform and opening up for more than a decade, which embodies Deng Xiaoping's outstanding contribution to inheriting and developing Mao Zedong's thought under new historical conditions. The generalization of these twelve principles is a further deepening of the understanding of socialism with Chinese characteristics.

In 1991, Jiang Zemin summarized the main content of the theory of constructing socialism with Chinese characteristics from the economic, political and cultural aspects in his speech at the 70th anniversary of the founding of the party. At the beginning of 1992, Deng Xiaoping's southern tour speech further summarized the basic experience since the 3rd Plenary Session of the 11th Central Committee, deeply answering many major issues that have long troubled and bound people's thinking from a theoretical point of view. This not only marked that Deng Xiaoping's thought had risen to a new height but also brought the whole Party's understanding of the theory of constructing socialism with Chinese characteristics to a new realm. In view of this, the 14th National Congress of the Party made a new summary of the content of the theory of constructing socialism with Chinese characteristics on the basis of the above theoretical advancement, and for the first time used the term "Comrade Deng Xiaoping's theory of building socialism with Chinese characteristics."

The nine aspects summarized by the 14th National Congress of “Comrade Deng Xiaoping's theory of building socialism with Chinese characteristics” are:
(1) On the issue of the path to socialist development, emphasizing our own normative way, not tying to the doctrines of books, not duplicating foreign models, guided by Marxism, with practice as the only criterion for testing truth, emancipating the mind, seeking truth from facts, respecting the pioneering spirit of the masses, and building socialism with Chinese characteristics.
(2) On the issue of the development stage, a scientific judgement is made that our country is still in the primary stage of socialism, emphasizing that this is a very long historical stage of at least hundreds of years. All guidelines and policies must be based on this fundamental national condition, and cannot be detached from reality and exceed stages.
(3) On the issue of the fundamental task of socialism, it points out that the essence of socialism is to liberate productivity, develop productivity, eliminate exploitation, eliminate polarization, and ultimately achieve common prosperity. We must give top priority to developing productivity, focus on economic construction, and promote comprehensive social progress. The standard for judging the pros and cons of all aspects of work is ultimately the "three favors."
(4) On the issue of the driving force for socialist development, it emphasizes that reform is a revolution and also a necessary path to liberate productivity and realize modernization in China. At the same time, it emphasizes that opening up is an indispensable means for reform and construction, and we should absorb and use all advanced cultural achievements created by countries around the world, including capitalist countries, to develop socialism.



(5) On the issue of external conditions for socialist construction, it points out that peace and development are the two major themes of the contemporary world. We must adhere to an independent and peaceful foreign policy, to strive for a favorable international environment for our country's modernization construction.
(6) On the issue of political guarantees for socialist construction, it emphasizes the need to adhere to four basic principles. They are not only the guarantees for the healthy development of reform, opening-up and modernization, but also need to acquire new era content from reform, opening-up and modernization. 
(7) On the issue of strategic steps, it proposes that the basic realization of modernization should be carried out in three steps. We must allow and encourage a part of the regions and people to get richer first through hard work, in order to drive more and more regions and people to gradually achieve common prosperity. 
(8) On the issue of leadership and reliance, it emphasizes that the Communist Party is the leading core of the socialist cause. The Party must adapt to the needs of reform, opening-up and modernization, continuously improve and strengthen the leadership of all aspects of work, and the construction of the Party itself. We must rely on the broad masses of workers, peasants, intellectuals, the unity of all nationalities, as well as the widest united front of all socialist workers, patriotic supporters of socialism and patriots who support the reunification of the motherland. 
(9) On the issue of national reunification, it proposes the innovative concept of "one country, two systems", advancing the great cause of peaceful reunification of the motherland. 

The summary of these nine aspects indicates that Deng Xiaoping’s theory of the construction of socialism with Chinese characteristics has formed a relatively complete scientific system. The report of the Fourteenth National Congress of the Party pointed out that this scientific theoretical system has gradually formed and developed under the historical conditions of peace and development becoming the theme of the times, based on the experience of our country's successful and failed socialist practices and lessons from the rise and fall of other socialist countries. The report highly praises the great significance of this theory.

Given the theoretical significance and guiding function of "Comrade Deng Xiaoping's theory of constructing socialism with Chinese characteristics", the Fourteenth National Congress of the Party proposed the strategic task of arming the whole party with this theory. 

Chapter 7: The Socialist Market Economy System and Basic Program of the Primary Stage of Socialism
Section 1: Final Determination of goals for market economy system reform and the formation of action program

How should China's economic system be reformed, whether to repair and mend within the existing planned economic system framework, or to target a new market economy system? This debate has always accompanied the full-scale process of reform and opening up.



It is an economic issue, as well as a political one, relating to the overall situation of the construction of socialist modernization. The Party has made relentless exploration into this issue, experiencing a process where thoughts are gradually liberated and understanding progressively clarified. The previous discourse on the Party's 12th Third Plenum's decision on economic reform has already partly touched upon this issue. We will now systematically review the ideological understandings of the central decision-making level. 

As early as a State Council meeting held between July and September 1978, some suggested that the law of value should play a more significant role. In December 1978, in the outline of the draft speech "Emancipate the mind, seek truth from facts, and unite and move forward," Deng Xiaoping said the following, "The contradiction between autonomy and the state plan mainly drifts from the law of value and the supply-demand relationship (product quality), i.e., regulated by the market." This was Deng Xiaoping's initial expression of his thoughts on economic activities being regulated through the market.

In March 1979, Chen Yun proposed in the outline of "The Issue of Plan and Market" that "There must be two types of economies during the whole socialist period: (1) the planned economy (the proportional part); (2) the market-regulated part (that is, not planned, only produced according to changes in market supply and demand, that is, it is blind regulation). The first part is basic and major; the second part is minor and auxiliary, but necessary." He also pointed out, "In the further adjustment of the economy and reform of the system, the adjustment of the proportions of these two economies will actually take up a large part. It is not necessarily the case that the absolute sum of the market economy will be reduced as the planned economy increases. Both may well increase correspondingly." The unfolding process of reform has proven the accuracy of Chen Yun's foresight. The economic system reform in our country did not break the planning system from the outset; rather, it tried to apply and emphasize the role of the market and law of value within the planning system, appropriately reducing the weight of mandatory plans and increasing the weight of guiding plans. On the other hand, it also played a role in expanding the scope of market regulation outside the planning system. With the increase in both the guiding plans within the planning system and the market regulation outside the system, the role of the market was embodied both inside and outside the planned system. Practice has proved that the importance of the market in economic development cannot be ignored, and the socialist economy cannot do without the role of market regulation. Deng Xiaoping provided more explicit exposition on this and was the first to associate the market economy with socialism.

In November 1979, when meeting with foreign guests, Deng Xiaoping pointed out, "To say that the market economy exists only in capitalist society and that there is only a capitalist market economy is definitely incorrect. Why can't socialism have a market economy? This cannot be said to be capitalism. We primarily have a planned economy, combined with a market economy, but this is a socialist market economy." Here, Deng Xiaoping explicitly used the term "socialist market economy." In June 1981, at the Sixth Plenary Session of the 11th Central Committee of the Party, the resolution "On Certain Historical Issues of the Party Since the Founding of the People’s Republic of China," while summarizing the road to socialist modernization in our country, proposed to "give play to the auxiliary role of market regulation." This statement was confirmed in the report of the 12th National Congress of the Party as the principle of "the planned economy is the mainstay, with market regulation as a supplementary aid," reflecting the understanding and perception of this issue at that time.



The major contribution of the "Decision on Economic System Reform" passed by the Third Plenary Session of the Twelfth Central Committee of the Party in 1984 was to solve the unification problem of socialism and commodity economy, but the disadvantage is that the unity problem of socialism and market economy has not yet been solved. The traditional concept that socialism cannot operate a market economy still has a significant influence. However, the "Decision on Economic System Reform" pointed out when it proposed that the socialist economy "is a planned commodity economy based on public ownership": implementing a planned economy does not mean relying mainly on directive plans, and indicative plans are also a specific form of planning. This provided a theoretical basis for gradually narrowing the scope of directive planning, continuously expanding the scope of market regulation, and promoting market-oriented reforms. The Thirteenth National Congress of the Party further pointed out: "The new system of socialist planned commodity economy should be a system in which planning and market are inherently unified." Since then, the phrase "planned economy as the main part" is no longer used in central documents. After the Fourth Plenary Meeting of the Thirteenth National Congress of the Party, it was proposed to establish an economic system and operating mechanism that combines planned economy and market regulation to adapt to the development of the planned commodity economy.

Since the Third Plenary Session of the Twelfth Central Committee of the Party, various places have vigorously developed the commodity economy, and market-oriented reforms have continued to expand and deepen. At the same time, in theory, issues about the nature of the market economy and whether China should implement a market economy have also caused a series of debates. The focus of the debate is whether the market economy is "surnamed" socialism or capitalism. On this issue, Deng Xiaoping has made clear statements and has repeatedly stated the view that "there is no fundamental contradiction between socialism and the market economy", emphasizing that we must understand theoretically that the difference between capitalism and socialism is not a problem of planning or market. Here is a summary of Deng Xiaoping's multiple discussions on the market economy: in addition to the above-mentioned discussion in November 1979, the second time was in January 1980 in "The Current Situation and Tasks", he proposed that we can "combine plan regulation and market regulation" when talking about seeking a road to develop economy suitable for China's actual situation. The third time was a conversation with the person in charge of the National Planning Commission in July 1982: "The superiority of socialism compared to capitalism is that it can centralize power and ensure priorities on a national scale. The disadvantage is that the market is not well utilized, and the economy is not lively. How to solve the relationship between planning and market? If it is solved well, it will be very beneficial to economic development; if it is not, it will mess things up." The fourth and fifth times are comments on the "Decision on Economic System Reform" (referred to as the "Decision") of the Third Plenary Session of the Twelfth National Congress of the Party. The fourth time was in an impromptu speech on October 20, 1984 when the plenary session passed the "Decision". He said that the "Decision" is a political economy that combines Marxist basic principles and the practice of Chinese socialism. The fifth time was a speech for the Central Advisory Commission two days later, saying that the "Decision" said some new things that our ancestors had never talked about. The sixth time was a conversation with a U.S. business delegation in October 1985, he clearly pointed out that "there is no fundamental contradiction between socialism and the market economy. The question is what method can be used to more effectively develop social productivity. We have been doing a planned economy in the past, but years of practice have proved, in a sense, that only doing a planned economy will restrict the development of productivity. Combining planned economy and market economy can liberate productivity and accelerate economic development. The seventh time was in February 1987, he said in a conversation with several central leaders: "Why is it said to be capitalism as soon as the market is discussed? Should planning be the only socialism? Planning and market are just methods. As long as it is beneficial for the development of productivity, it can be utilized.



"It serves socialism, it is socialist; it serves capitalism, it is capitalist. It seems that planning is socialist, which is also incorrect. Japan has a planning department, and the United States also has plans. We used to learn from the Soviet Union and engage in planned economy. Later, the planned economy was emphasized. Now, we should no longer talk about this." The eighth time is in September 1988, during the feedback of economic work, saying that macro-management should be reflected in the central government's words counting, and now it is the macro-management of the well-off society. Here, there is no direct reference to planning and market issues on the surface, but it is based on the implementation of a socialist market economy. Subsequently, it emphasized central macro-control under the conditions of a socialist market economy, which was an important authoritative basis. The ninth time was a speech on June 9, 1989: "We must continue to adhere to a combination of planned economy and market regulation, and this cannot be changed. In actual work, during the adjustment period, we can strengthen or have more planning, and more market regulation at other times to make it more flexible." The tenth time was a conversation with several central leaders in December 1990: "We must understand from a theoretical point of view that the distinction between capitalism and socialism is not about planning or markets. Socialism also has a market economy, and capitalism also has planned control...Don't think that engaging in a bit of market economy is the capitalist road, that's not a thing." The eleventh time was a conversation when inspecting Shanghai in early 1991: "Don’t think that planning economy means socialism and market economy means capitalism. That’s not the case. Both are means. The market can also serve socialism." The twelfth time was the conversation in the south mentioned in the text. In the southern conversation in 1992, specifically targeted at the debate over plan and market named "Social" or "Capitalist", Deng Xiaoping pointed out: Whether planning more or the market more, it’s not the essential difference between socialism and capitalism. A planned economy is not equal to socialism, and capitalism also has plans; a market economy is not equivalent to capitalism, and socialism also has a market. Planning and markets are all economic means. This thoroughly and incisively answered the major theoretical issue that had been debated for a long time about whether socialism could develop a market economy, fundamentally relieved the ideological restriction of viewing the planned economy as a basic feature of socialism, and laid the ideological and theoretical foundation for establishing the goal of the socialist market economic system.
During the preparation for the 14th Party Congress, the Party Central Committee repeatedly studied and determined the target model of economic system reform and made decisions. On June 9, 1992, Jiang Zemin gave a speech at the Central Party School, clearly proposing the establishment of a socialist market economic system. He first expounded Deng Xiaoping's idea of "socialism also has a market", saying that through more than ten years of reform and opening up, we have a deeper understanding. In the past, we often only saw the negative effects brought about by the spontaneity of the market, seldom saw the positive effects of the market on encouraging enterprise competition, and promoting economic development, especially did not see that the market is also a way to allocate resources, and did not see its promotion of optimizing resource allocation. This is a kind of one-sidedness in cognition. Of course, emphasizing the advantages of the market does not mean that the market is comprehensive and omnipotent, and the market also has obvious limitations.




Therefore, it is necessary to leverage the advantages of planning regulation to compensate for and resist the negative effects of market regulation, in order to ensure the comprehensive development of the entire economy. He also pointed out that it is imperative to fundamentally reform the highly concentrated planned economic system, otherwise, it would be impossible to achieve modernization in our country. How to reform, and what is the goal? He said that there are three ways to establish a new economic system: First, to establish a socialist commodity economic system that combines planning and markets; Second, to establish a planned market economy system under socialism; Third, to establish a socialist market economic system. After extensive solicitation of opinions and repeated comparisons, the Central Government "tends to use the socialist market economic system." On June 12, Jiang Zemin told Deng Xiaoping his ideas. Deng Xiaoping immediately agreed, saying that in fact we are doing this, Shenzhen is a socialist market economy. Thereafter, the party committees of 30 provinces, autonomous regions, and municipalities directly under the Central Government all agreed with the idea of a socialist market economic system. 
In the fall of 1992, the 14th National Congress of the Party officially proposed the goal of reforming to establish a socialist market economic system. Jiang Zemin pointed out in his report at the Fourteenth National Congress of the Party that the goal of China's economic system reform is to establish a socialist market economic system in order to further liberate and develop productive forces. Our country should set up a socialist market economic system that allows the market to play a basic role in resource allocation under the macro-control of socialist countries, and ensures that economic activities comply with the requirements of the laws of value and adapt to changes in supply-demand relationships. Through the functions of price leverage and competition mechanisms, resources are allocated to sectors with better benefits and pressures are applied to enterprises to phase out inferior products. We should also use the advantage of the market's sensitivity to various economic signals to promote the timely coordination of production and demand. At the same time, it should also be seen that the market has its own weaknesses and negative aspects, and it is necessary to strengthen and improve the state's macroeconomic control. The report also pointed out that the socialist market economic system is integrated with the basic socialist economic system. In terms of ownership structure, the public ownership economy, including all-people ownership, and collective ownership economy, are the main body while individual economy, private economy, and foreign economy are supplements. Different economic components can voluntarily carry out various forms of joint operations. State-owned enterprises, collective enterprises, and other enterprises all enter the market, playing a leading role through equal competition. In terms of distribution systems, distribution according to labor is the main body, with other distribution methods as supplements, taking into account both efficiency and equity. In terms of macro control, we should better align the immediate interests of the people with long-term interests, and local interests with overall interests, and give full play to the strengths of both planning and market tools. In March 1993, the First Session of the Eighth National People's Congress made amendments to the Constitution and changed "the state practices socialist planned economy" to "the state practices socialist market economy." The socialist market economy was written into the Constitution.
The establishment of the socialist market economic system signifies the party's new leaps in understanding of scientific socialist theory and reform and opening-up practices. From the beginning of the reform, the party proposed to play a supporting role in market regulation, to the 14th National Congress of the Party confirming the goal of the socialist market economic system, a full 14 years had passed. The final establishment of this goal is a major achievement from the hard exploration of the party in reform, opening-up, and the practice of modernization construction, and also the inevitable result of the in-depth development of the cause of socialism with Chinese characteristics. This new decision has made the direction of our country's economic system reform and socialist modernization construction clearer.



In accordance with the decisions of the Fourteenth National Congress of the Party, the Central Committee of the Party and the State Council have been speeding up all kinds of reforms and urgently formulating an overall plan for the establishment of a socialist market economic system. In November 1993, the Third Plenary Session of the 14th Central Committee of the Party adopted the "Decision on Certain Issues Concerning the Establishment of a Socialist Market Economic System" (hereinafter referred to as the "Decision"), which put forward a relatively complete idea and plan on how to establish a socialist market economic system. The "Decision" pointed out: The establishment of a socialist market economic system aims to enable the market to play a fundamental role in resource allocation under state macro-control, to liberate and develop productivity to the greatest extent, to enhance the comprehensive national strength of the state, to improve people's living standards more quickly, and to fully take advantage of the superiority of the socialist system. To achieve this goal, the "Decision" elaborated on the five main links in the establishment of a socialist market economy. 

At the closing session of the plenary session, Jiang Zemin pointed out that this "Decision" is the action program for the Party to carry out economic system reform in the 1990s based on Deng Xiaoping's theory of socialism with Chinese characteristics and the spirit of the Fourteenth Congress of the Party. 

II. Full implementation of the reform of the socialist market economic system
With the establishment of the goal of reforming the socialist market economic system by the Fourteenth National Congress of the Party and the Third Plenary Session of the Fourteenth Central Committee of the Party, China's reform and opening up have entered a new stage of overall transformation from a planned economy to a market economy. 

1. Actively promoting the reform of state-owned enterprises and establishing a modern enterprise system
State-owned enterprises are the mainstay of China's national economy. The reform of state-owned enterprises is the core of economic system reform. The modern enterprise system with public ownership as the main body is the basis of the socialist market economy. The direction of state-owned enterprise reform determined by the Third Plenary Session of the Fourteenth Central Committee of the Party is to establish a modern enterprise system. This is an inevitable requirement for developing large-scale socialized production and a socialist market economy. It marks that the thinking of China's economic system reform has shifted from the policy adjustment based on power delegation, profit to tax, and separation of two rights in the past to the stage of institutional innovation centered on the reform of property rights of public ownership.




This marks a significant shift in the direction of reform, which is an important indicator of deepening reform. To this end, the central government has made the decision to concentrate on improving large and medium-sized enterprises, while also liberating and invigorating small state-owned enterprises. This will be done by increasing the intensity of merging, reorganizing, acquiring, and liquidating companies, thus promoting the optimization and restructuring of state-owned assets. Since 1994, the State Council has made it clear that first of all, a trial of the modern corporate system will be carried out in 100 large and medium-sized state-owned enterprises. Then 18 cities will carry out trials to restructure and reorganize their capital and assets. The focus will be on 1,000 key state-owned enterprises that are vital to national economy and people's livelihood. Cross-area and cross-industry corporate groups were developed, with 56 enterprise groups being reorganized first. Within these trial companies, a majority has been restructured into joint-stock companies, with business mechanisms undergoing change, industrial structures adjusted, and an array of experiences gathered regarding the establishment of modern corporate systems in large and medium state-owned enterprises. For small state-owned enterprises, a variety of liberated and invigorating business modes and organizational structures were adopted. And by the end of 1993, nearly 4,000 companies nationwide were participating in joint-stock trials in line with standardization requirements. Corresponding rules and regulations about joint-stock systems were steadily set up. Adopting a joint-stock system has become the effective way to transform business mechanisms and establish a modern corporate system.

2. Cultivate and grow the market system; vigorously promote financial system and pricing system reforms

The key to establish a socialist market economy is to allow the market mechanism to play a fundamental role in allocating resources, which demands nurturing and growing a market system. While continuing to develop commodity markets, it is particularly crucial to vigorously develop the market for production materials, actively nurture a financial market inclusive of bonds, stocks and other securities, develop technology, services, information and real-estate markets, and form a unified, open market system as quickly as possible. The 14th Party Congress' third plenary session passed the "Decision on Establishing the Socialist Market Economic System" (abbreviated as the "Decision"), one major breakthrough was the introduction of the "labor market". According to Marx's "Capital", labor power only becomes a commodity under capitalism. The practice of reform and opening-up has shown that in the primary stage of socialism, due to the existence of various forms of ownership, labor still has commodity attributes and produces surplus value. A large influx of rural laborers into urban employment represents a massive labor market. Recognizing the existence of a labor market in objective reality can both protect the rights and interests of workers through labor laws and promote optimal allocation of labor resources. The "Decision" to change the longstanding term "Services Market" to "Labor Market" represents a major ideological liberation.

The development of a market economy, the financial market plays a pivotal role. Shortly after the Third Plenum of the 12th Party Congress approved the decision on economic system reform, Deng Xiaoping pointed out: Our banks in the past were currency issuance companies and treasuries, not real banks. "The pace of financial reform needs to be stepped up. To make banks truly operate like banks." In the early 1990s, when speaking of developing Pudong, he stressed: "Finance is very important and is at the core of modern economics. If the finance is well managed, one chess move can invigorate the whole board."



"Shanghai used to be a financial center, a place where currency could be freely exchanged, and it should also be in the future." In November 1990 and July 1992, with the authorization from the State Council and the approval from the People's Bank of China, the Shanghai and Shenzhen stock exchanges were established one after another, achieving the centralized trading of stocks and forming a nationwide securities trading market. This has also become an important symbol of the formation and financial system reform of our country's capital market. Since 1994, our country has gradually established a central bank macro-control system independently executing monetary policy under the leadership of the State Council, implemented the separation of policy finance and commercial finance, and established a financial organization system with state-owned commercial banks as the main body and various financial institutions coexisting, as well as a financial market system that is unified, open, orderly competitive, and strictly managed. Subsequently, the practice of aligning the RMB price with the foreign exchange adjustment market price, and the free conversion of foreign exchange under current items, established a managed single floating exchange rate system based on market supply and demand, which played an important role in further communicating domestic and foreign markets, improving the foreign economic environment, further attracting foreign investment, and developing an open economy.

The reform of the price management system, both as one of the earliest initiated reforms of the economic system and a reform with continuous increase in adjustment intensity. With consecutive years of good agricultural harvests and an increasingly abundant supply of agricultural products, by 1993 the prices and operations for the vast majority of agricultural products, including grain, were liberalized. The original grain rationing was replaced with market supply, and grain tickets and grain booklets for urban residents were all abolished. Most prices for production materials transitioned from a "dual-track system" to a single market price. The proportion of market prices in the total retail sales of social commodities rose from 50.3% before 1991 to 93.8% in 1993, establishing the dominant position of market prices in the pricing system. During this period, economic means, legal means, and necessary administrative means were used in combination, with a price control system primarily based on economic means being established. This marked a smooth transition in price reform, which was previously considered to cause the most social unrest. This is yet another major achievement of the economic reform.

3. Establish and improve the macro-control system, actively promote the reform of the fiscal and tax system and the investment system

The socialist market economy system established by our country aims to better combine planning and market means. The main task of macro-control is to maintain the basic balance of economic total, promote the optimization of economic structure, guide the sustainable, rapid, and healthy development of national economy, and drive comprehensive social progress. The main economic methods employed are the establishment of a mechanism coordinating and restricting planning, finance, and fiscal policy, strengthening the comprehensive coordination of economic operation.

Actively promoting the reform of the fiscal and tax system is a key point in establishing and improving the macro-control system after the third plenary session of the twelfth Party Central Committee. In December 1993, the State Council decided to implement a tax-sharing system, dividing various income into fixed central fiscal income, fixed local fiscal income, and shared income between the central and local governments; correspondingly adjusted the tax collection and management system, established a standardized distribution relationship between the central and local governments, institutionally ensured the unity of fiscal power and authority at all levels of government, gradually increased the proportion of fiscal revenue in gross national product, appropriately increased the proportion of central fiscal income, to enhance the ability of macro-control of the central government. At the same time, on the basis of unifying tax laws, fair tax burdens, simplifying tax systems, and rationalizing decentralization, the focus is on implementing a turnover tax system mainly composed of value-added tax, changing product tax to consumption tax, collecting business tax in the service industry, uniformly adopting the method of progressive tax on personal income, gradually forming a fair competitive environment. Starting in 1997, the tax policies of the financial and insurance industry were further adjusted, and China's tax system gradually aligned with international rules.

Another important measure to strengthen the macro-control system is to actively promote the reform of the investment and financing system. This is mainly to further strengthen the investment position of enterprises, and to introduce more market competition mechanisms in the field of investment and financing.



The capital system is implemented for various operational fixed asset investment projects. The investment project can only be established after the capital is realized. Various financing methods are introduced in the infrastructure, basic industries, and public utilities construction, widely absorbing funds from all sectors of society and promoting the maximum economic and social benefits of investment financing.  
4. Deepen the reform of the foreign trade system and establish an operating mechanism adapted to international economic common rules  
To establish a socialist market economic system, it is necessary to fully utilize both international and domestic markets and resources. This necessitates the normalization of foreign economic activities and the deepening of foreign trade system reforms. Three measures were mainly adopted at the time.  
First, the directive plan for foreign trade import was cancelled and replaced with a guiding plan. For goods needed by domestic production and the market, enterprises organize imports according to the market demand, reduce the number of quota-managed goods, and standardize the management methods of import quota goods. Second, granting import and export rights to qualified enterprises, changing the laggard state of the business mechanism transformation of foreign trade enterprises, improving their adaptability to increasingly fierce international market competition, and cultivating and expanding a number of large-scale foreign trade enterprises with international competitiveness. Third, in conjunction with international conventions, foreign trade laws and regulations are improved, efforts are accelerated to align the foreign trade system with international standards, and the overall tariff level is lowered. From April 1, 1996, the overall import tax on more than 4,000 commodities was reduced to 23%, and on October 1, 1997, it was further lowered to around 17%. Not only did these measures help more competitive foreign goods enter the Chinese market, but they also promoted China's economic development and accelerated China's entry into the World Trade Organization.
The transition from a planned economy to a socialist market economy is a typical process of "crossing the river by feeling the stones". There is no blame for that. Without experience, the only way to forge a path is like this. This is the theory of empirical knowledge of Marxism. Through the above-mentioned reforms and other reforms, the transition was basically completed, the marketization and socialization of the national economy were significantly improved, and the economic vitality was significantly enhanced. All this created favorable conditions for the continued improvement and perfection of the socialist market economic system.
3. An important juncture in historical development and upholding the great banner of Deng Xiaoping’s theory.
After Deng Xiaoping's death on February 19, 1997, whether the Communist Party of China could continue to uphold the great banner of Deng Xiaoping's theory, and whether China's reform and opening up and modernization could continue along the socialist road with Chinese characteristics opened up by Deng Xiaoping, became a major event thatfocuses the attention of the whole Party, the whole nation, and the world. In response to this key issue related to China's overall development, the Party Central Committee, with Jiang Zemin at its core, provided a clear answer.



This is: adhering to Deng Xiaoping's legacy, upholding the great banner of Deng Xiaoping theory, persistently advancing along the path of socialist construction with Chinese characteristics pioneered by Deng Xiaoping.
The "Letter to All Party Members, All Military Personnel and People of All Ethnic Groups in the Country" released by the Central Party and Jiang Zemin's eulogy at Deng Xiaoping's memorial service highly praised Deng Xiaoping's tumultuous revolutionary career of over 70 years and his immortal contributions to the independence and liberation of the Chinese nation and the socialist modernization cause of China. The eulogy emphasizes: the most precious wealth left by Deng Xiaoping to us is the theory of building social socialism with Chinese characteristics that he founded and the party's basic line at the primary stage of socialism formulated under the guidance of this theory. This is a must-follow action guide. On the new journey across the century, raising the great banner of Deng Xiaoping's theory of building socialism with Chinese characteristics higher and better implementing the party's basic line is the firm determination and conviction of our party central leadership collective, and it is also the consensus and desire of all party members, the entire military, and people of all ethnic groups nationwide.
On May 29, Jiang Zemin gave a speech at the graduation ceremony of the Central Party School's Provincial and Ministerial Advanced Studies Course, once again emphasizing the issue of upholding the banner of Deng Xiaoping theory. He said, in the new era of socialist reform and openness, and the construction of modernization, on the new journey across the century, we must hold high the grand banner of Deng Xiaoping's theory of constructing socialism with Chinese characteristics, and use this theory to guide our entire cause and all works. This is an unshakeable conclusion that the party drew from history and reality. The issue of the banner is crucial. The banner is the direction, the banner is the image. We must have a high level of consciousness and firmness on this issue, and we should not waver no matter what difficulties or risks we encounter.
In September 1997, the Fifteenth National Congress of the Party was held, and Jiang Zemin made a report titled "Uphold the Great Banner of Deng Xiaoping Theory, and Fully Push Forward the Construction of Socialism with Chinese Characteristics into the 21st Century". The report, standing at the height of the era, elaborated on the century-old tremendous changes of the Chinese nation. It pointed out that since the 20th century, our nation has experienced three historic changes, producing three great figures standing at the forefront of the era: Sun Yat-sen, who led the Xinhai Revolution and overthrew the autocratic system that ruled China for thousands of years; Mao Zedong, who led the victory of the New Democratic Revolution and established New China and the socialist system; Deng Xiaoping, who led the reform and opening-up and the construction of socialist modernization, known as the new great revolution. The third historic change successfully blazed a new path of building socialism with Chinese characteristics for the revitalization of the nation, a strong nation, and the happiness of the people. The vigorous vitality and energy shown by socialism in China has attracted worldwide attention. The great contributions made by Deng Xiaoping to China and the world are sincerely respected and loved by the Chinese people and people around the world.
The report of the Fifteenth Congress of the Party further expounded the historical position of Deng Xiaoping's theory of building socialism with Chinese characteristics and used the "Deng Xiaoping Theory" formulation for the first time. Jiang Zemin pointed out: The Communist Party of China is a party that attaches great importance to theoretical guidance. The Communist Party of China guided by Marxism-Leninism combines it with the reality of China, realizes two historical leaps, and produces two major theoretical achievements. The main founder of the theoretical results of the first leap was Mao Zedong, our party calls it Mao Zedong Thought. "The main creator of the theoretical result of the second leap is the theory of building socialism with Chinese characteristics. Its main creator is Deng Xiaoping. We of the party call it Deng Xiaoping Theory." The report of the Fifteenth Congress of the Party pointed out the historical position of Deng Xiaoping's theory: Deng Xiaoping's theory is the right theory to guide the Chinese people to realize socialist modernization successfully in reform and openness.



In contemporary China, only the Deng Xiaoping Theory, which combines Marxism with the practice and characteristics of current China, can solve the issue of the future and destiny of socialism. No other theories can do this. Deng Xiaoping Theory is the Marxism of contemporary China, and represents a new stage of development for Marxism in China.

The report pointed out that the reason why Deng Xiaoping Theory can become a new stage in the development of Marxism in China is: 
First, Deng Xiaoping Theory adheres to the principles of liberating thought and seeking truth from facts, inheriting from predecessors yet breaking old conventions based on new practice, opening up new territory for Marxism.
Second, Deng Xiaoping Theory insists on the basic achievements of the theory and practice of scientific socialism, takes hold of the fundamental questions of "what is socialism and how to build socialism", deeply reveals the essence of socialism, and raises the understanding of socialism to a new scientific level. 
Third, Deng Xiaoping Theory insists on observing the world with the broad vision of Marxism, conducting correct analyses of contemporary era characteristics, overall international situations, the success or failure of other socialist countries, the development of developing countries, the development trends and contradictions of developed countries, and making new scientific judgements. 
Fourth, Deng Xiaoping Theory is the scientific system of the theory of constructing socialism with Chinese characteristics, which was gradually formed and developed based on the historical experience of our country's successful and unsuccessful socialist construction, lessons learned from other socialist countries, under the historical conditions where peace and development became the main theme of the era, and in the practice of China's reform and opening up and modernization.
This theory systematically and preliminarily answers a series of basic questions about China's socialist development path, stages, fundamental tasks, driving forces, external conditions, political guarantees, strategic steps, party leadership and relied-upon power, and national unification, and guides our party's basic line in the primary stage of socialism. 
Thus, Jiang Zemin stated, the soul of this congress is to uphold the great banner of Deng Xiaoping Theory.

In contemporary China, Marxism-Leninism, Mao Zedong Thought, and Deng Xiaoping Theory belong to one unified scientific system. 
Adhering to Deng Xiaoping Theory is truly adhering to Marxism-Leninism and Mao Zedong Thought. 
Raising high the banner of Deng Xiaoping Theory is truly raising high the banner of Marxism-Leninism and Mao Zedong Thought.
The Party Constitution Amendment adopted by the Congress further establishes Deng Xiaoping Theory as the guiding thought of the Party and clearly stipulates that the Communist Party of China regards Marxism-Leninism, Mao Zedong Thought, and Deng Xiaoping Theory as its action guide.

The congress further explained and summarized the fundamental theory of socialism in the primary stage, which is regarded as the foundation of Deng Xiaoping Theory, thus enriching and developing this theory first expounded at the 13th Congress. This mainly includes: 
(1) It was pointed out for the first time that the greatest reality of our country is that it is and will remain in the primary stage of socialism for a long time. 
The comprehensive reform enters the critical stage, encounters many contradictions and difficulties, and some new doubts need to be clarified. 
This requires further understanding of China's national conditions, and firmly believing in the Party's basic line and basic policy at this stage. 
Only with a correct understanding of the basic national conditions can we firmly believe why we must implement the current policies and cannot implement other policies. 
The report clearly pointed out: "We speak of starting from reality, and the greatest reality is that China is now and will remain in the primary stage of socialism for a long time. When we talk about understanding clearly 'what is socialism, how to build socialism', we must understand what is socialism at the primary stage and how to build socialism at the primary stage." Because of this, the Fifteenth Congress of the Party once again emphasized the issue of socialism in the primary stage and reinterpreted this theory.



(2) Based on the new understanding of "what is socialism and how to build socialism", a new definition of the connotation and characteristics of the primary stage of socialism has been made. "What is socialism, and how to build socialism" is a fundamental question that Deng Xiaoping repeatedly asked after summarizing China's historical experience. After the third volume of "Selected Works of Deng Xiaoping" was published in November 1993, the whole Party studied and discussed this fundamental issue, raising its understanding of socialism to a new level. The Fifteenth Party Congress spoke about one important feature of the primary stage of socialism, which is to analyze problems and increase its understanding from this high level, thus resulting in a more enriched understanding. The primary stage of socialism is emphasized as a constant evolution from one state to another, highlighting the dynamic nature of its basic characteristics. The Thirteenth Congress of the Party listed five basic characteristics of the primary stage. The Fifteenth Party Congress looked back based on new experiences and broadened it into nine aspects including the overall characteristics, physical and spiritual civilization development characteristics, and political civilization development characteristics. The summarization of the basic characteristics of the primary stage of socialism by the Fifteenth Party Congress is as follows: 

The primary stage of socialism is a historical stage where society gradually moves away from its underdeveloped status, and essentially realizes socialist modernization; it gradually transforms a predominantly agricultural country relying primarily on manual labor into an industrialized country where the majority of the population is non-agrarian, comprising of modern agriculture and the modern service industry; it gradually transitions from an economy where the natural and semi-natural economy occupy a significant portion, to a stage where market economy is highly developed; it transforms from an era where a significant segment of the population is illiterate and culturally backward, to one where scientific education and culture are relatively developed; it transitions from a stage where a significant weight of the population is in poverty and the standard of living is low, to a stage where the entire populace is relatively affluent; it evolves from an imbalance in regional economic and cultural development to a stage where the gap is progressively narrowing; it is a stage where through reform and exploration, a fairly mature, robust, and thriving Socialist Market Economic System, Socialist Democratic Political System, and other systems are established and perfected; it is a stage where the multitude firmly establish the common ideal of building socialism with Chinese characteristics, constantly striving for self-improvement, forging ahead, fighting hard, building the country through hard work and frugality, while trying to build a spiritual civilization alongside a material one; it is a stage where the gap with the world's advanced levels is slowly closing, and the grand revival of the Chinese nation is realized on the basis of socialism.

(3) According to the spirit of Deng Xiaoping's southern tour speech, it is further affirmed that the primary stage of socialism requires at least 100 years. The contradiction between the people's ever-growing needs for material and cultural life and the backward social productive forces, which is the main contradiction in the society, will "penetrate the whole process of the primary stage of socialism and all aspects of social life". Only by firmly grasping this main contradiction, can we "clearly observe and grasp the overall situation of social contradictions, effectively promote the resolution of various social contradictions", thereby making the premise of "development is the absolute principle, and the key to solving all problems in China is to rely on our own development" more solid.

(4) For the first time, the relationship between "reform, development, and stability", proposed after the Fourteenth Party Congress, is included in the historical framework of the primary stage of socialism. This not only clarifies the strategic position of managing these three relationships in the overall construction of socialist modernization but also further determines that it is a long-term basic policy applicable to the entire primary stage of socialism. In this way, it not only elevates the understanding of the status of the relationship between the three but also enriches the basic issues that should be grasped during the primary stage of socialism. The Fifteenth Party Congress's reinterpretation of the theory of the primary stage of socialism not only makes this foundational theory of Deng Xiaoping's more timely, but also makes it the theoretical basis for the third generation leadership group to propose the basic program of the primary stage of socialism.

IV. Formation of the Basic Program of the Primary Stage of Socialism



At the Fifteenth Congress of the Party, based on Deng Xiaoping's theory and the basic line of the Party, the basic program of the Party in the primary stage of socialism was proposed for the first time in a relatively complete way, in view of the goal of building a socialist modern country characterized by prosperity, democracy and civilization. If we say confirming and summarizing the basic line of the Party after the first explanation of the theory of the primary stage of socialism was a significant theoretical contribution of the Thirteenth Congress of the Party, then clarifying the basic program of the Party at this stage from a new height when re-explaining the problem of the primary stage of socialism was a major theoretical contribution of the Fifteenth Congress of the Party. 

The understanding of the basic program of the primary stage of socialism by the Party also went through a process of exploration. As early as 1979, Ye Jianying, representing the Central Committee of the Party, proposed in his speech commemorating the 30th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China the program for comprehensively achieving modernization, which was subsequently reaffirmed by Deng Xiaoping: "Our country has already entered a new era of socialist modernization. While greatly improving social productivity, we should also reform and perfect the socialist economic and political system, develop highly socialist democracy and a complete socialist legal system. We should improve the scientific and cultural level of the entire nation, develop noble and varied cultural life, and build highly socialist spiritual civilization." Afterwards, Deng Xiaoping repeatedly emphasized that the task of building socialism with Chinese characteristics is many, we should not sacrifice one for the other while persisting in the comprehensive development and progress of a socialist society with the economic construction as the center. Therefore, he proposed a series of "two hands" strategic thoughts and policies, requiring us to grasp reform and opening up and combat crime; grasp economic construction and democratic legal system; grasp material civilization and spiritual civilization. He emphasized that both hands must be held tight. Therefore, Deng Xiaoping's theory is the theoretical basis for the comprehensive building and development of the economic, political and cultural aspects of socialism with Chinese characteristics.

At the fourth plenary session of the 13th Central Committee of the Party, Jiang Zemin pointed out that for the basic policies since the third plenary session of the 11th Central Committee, we must be steadfast and unswerving, fully implement them without any second thought. In December 1990, the Seventh Plenary Session of the 13th Central Committee of the Party passed "Suggestions on the Formulation of a Ten-Year Plan for the National Economy and Social Development and the 'Eighth Five-Year' Plan", which put forward several principles for the construction of socialism with Chinese characteristics covering economic, political and cultural aspects. On July 1, 1991, in his speech at the celebration of the 70th anniversary of the founding of the Party, Jiang Zemin made a systematic summary of the basic contents of socialism with Chinese characteristics in terms of economy, politics and culture in accordance with Mao Zedong's thinking on new democracy. He pointed out:

(1) In building a socialist economy with Chinese characteristics, we must adhere to the socialist public ownership of the means of production as the main body, allow and encourage other economic elements to develop appropriately, neither deviating from the level of development of productive forces to engage in a single form of public ownership, nor shaking the dominant position of the public ownership economy. We cannot engage in privatization. We must implement a distribution system based on distribution according to work as the main body and supplemented by other means of distribution, overcome equalitarianism, prevent polarization, and gradually realize the common prosperity of all people. We must establish an economic system and operation mechanism suitable for the development of planned commodity economy under socialism, combine planned economy with market regulation, give full play to the positive role of market regulation under the guidance of national laws and regulations and plans, overcome the previous overly centralized and tightly controlled shortfalls, but also cannot over-disperse and weaken macro-control.

(2) In building a socialist political structure with Chinese characteristics, we must persist in the people's democratic dictatorship led by the working class and based on the alliance of workers and peasants, and can not weaken or abandon the people's democratic dictatorship. We must adhere to and perfect the system of people's congresses, and cannot adopt the Western parliamentary system. We must adhere to and perfect the system of multi-party cooperation and political consultation led by the Chinese Communist Party, and cannot weaken or deny the leadership of the Communist Party, and cannot adopt the Western multiparty system.



(3) To construct a culture of socialism with Chinese characteristics, we must adhere to the guidance of Marxism-Leninism and Mao Zedong thought; we cannot diversify the guiding ideas. We must persist on serving people and socialism; flourishing and promoting socialist culture in line with the principles of "let a hundred flowers bloom, and a hundred schools of thought contend.". We should not allow deleterious and anti-socialist influences to permeate our society. We must carry forward the excellent cultural traditions of our nation while reflecting the spirit of the socialist era, anchoring ourselves in our homeland and absorbing the excellent results of world culture. We should also resist attempts at nihilism and wholesale Westernization. Jiang Zemin emphasized, "the economy, politics, and culture of socialism with Chinese characteristics are an integrated and indivisible whole."

After Deng Xiaoping's southern tour talk in 1992 and the Party's 14th National Congress, significant achievements were made in economic, political, and cultural construction in our country, and the contents of economic, political, and cultural construction of socialist with Chinese characteristics became richer. Based on this, the Party's 15th National Congress, taking the theory of building socialism with Chinese characteristics as summarized by the 14th National Congress, further summarized the experiences of economic, political, and cultural aspects of socialism with Chinese characteristics, and made more incisive statements on how to build such an economy, politics, and culture. It officially proposed the Party's basic program in the primary stage of socialism. This program, centering on the Party's basic line and the goals of socialist modernization, sets out requirements and tasks in the economic, political, and cultural areas.

(1) "Constructing an economy of socialism with Chinese characteristics" means developing a market economy under socialist conditions and continuously liberating and developing productive forces. This requires us to adhere to and improve the basic economic system of socialism with public ownership as the mainstay and multiple forms of ownership developing side by side; adhere to and perfect the socialist market economic system, where the market plays a basic role in allocating resources under national macro-control; and adhere to and improve a system of distribution where contribution is dominant, allowing some regions and people to become prosperous first, and then help others to follow. Ultimately, the goal is for common prosperity.

(2) "Constructing a politics of socialism with Chinese characteristics" means subsequently, developing socialist democracy politics under the leadership of the Chinese Communist Party and based on the principle of the people being masters of their own affairs, and ruling the country according to law. This requires adherence to and perfecting the people's democratic dictatorship led by the working class and based on the alliance of workers and peasants; to adhere to and improve the system of people's congresses and the system of multiparty cooperation and political consultation under the leadership of the Communist Party, and the system of regional autonomy for ethnic minorities; to develop democracy, perfect the legal system, and build a socialist country ruled by law. A vigorous political situation in which the country is stable, the government is clean and efficient, and the people of all ethnic groups live in harmony.




Among the listed basic political systems, the system of ethnic regional autonomy has been added, which is very necessary and consistent with the characteristics of our multi-ethnic country's political system. Subsequent party documents mention this one when discussing the basic political system at the current stage of our country. It also adds the requirements of "building a socialist country under the rule of law" and "clean and efficient government", which not only reflect the wishes of the people, but also express the efforts the party needs to make to achieve the goal of democratic politics. Both of these aspects are part of building socialism with Chinese characteristics, which reflects significant progress in the party's thinking on democracy and rule of law.

(3) "Building a socialist culture with Chinese characteristics" means taking Marxism as a guide and aiming to cultivate citizens with ideals, morals, culture, and discipline. We must develop a socialist culture that is geared towards modernization, the world, and the future and is national, scientific, and popular. This requires arming the entire party with Deng Xiaoping Theory, educating the people, and striving to improve the ideological and moral qualities, education, science, and cultural level of all members of the nation. The content here is based on a speech in July 1991 and incorporates the new results of the party's Sixth Plenary Session of the Fourteenth Central Committee in October 1996 on "several important issues in strengthening the construction of a socialist spiritual civilization". These results have further enhanced our understanding. In order to succinctly and comprehensively answer what a culture of socialism with Chinese characteristics is, the passage "guided by Marxism, cultivating citizens with ideals, morals, culture, and discipline, and developing a socialist culture toward modernization, the world, and the future" combines Deng Xiaoping's thought, and covers various requirements, highlighting the characteristic of keeping up with the times.

The basic goals and policies of building a socialist economy, politics, and culture with Chinese characteristics form the basic program of the party in the primary stage of socialism. Jiang Zemin pointed out in the report of the 15th National Congress of the Party: "This program is an important part of Deng Xiaoping's theory and is the extension of the party's basic line in the economic, political, and cultural aspects. It is a scientific summary of the most important experiences over the years." The proposal of this basic program is of great significance in unifying the thinking of the entire party and unifying the people of all ethnic groups in the country to strive for the cause of building socialism with Chinese characteristics.

Chapter 8 Developing Socialist Democracy with Chinese Characteristics and Building a Socialist Spiritual Civilization

I. Actively promoting socialist democratic political construction

Democratic political construction is an important part of the construction of socialism with Chinese characteristics. After entering a new stage of reform and opening up, the Party Central Committee, with Jiang Zemin at its core, took more practical measures to advance political system reform, establish socialist democracy with Chinese characteristics, and achieved fruitful results in institutional construction and other aspects based on a deep understanding of China's national conditions and the needs of the changing situation.

1. Proposal of the policy of "actively and prudently promoting political system reform"
  
Deng Xiaoping was the chief architect of reform and opening up and modernization construction, as well as the chief architect of political system reform. His several speeches clearly defined the fundamental goal and overall framework of our country's political system reform. After the Fourth Plenary Session of the Thirteenth Central Committee of the Party, the Party Central Committee, with Jiang Zemin at its core, persistently adhered to Deng Xiaoping's thoughts on political system reform, and further proposed the policy of "actively and prudently promoting political system reform".



In July 1995, Jiang Zemin noted, "While we are implementing economic system reform, we are also actively and prudently advancing political system reform, striving to build socialist democratic politics with Chinese characteristics." In his speech at the 20th anniversary conference of the Third Plenary Session of the Eleventh Central Committee of the Party in December 1998, he continued to point out that "We must actively and prudently advance the reform of the political system. This is an inherent requirement for the self-improvement and development of our country's socialist political system and also an important decision made by our Party based on historical and practical experience." This decision is a basic policy with far-reaching significance in the course of the development of our country's political system reform.

The policy of "actively and prudently advancing political system reform" has two implications. First, the reform of the political system is still ongoing and has not been interrupted as some people at home and abroad have criticized due to political turmoil. As the report of the Fourteenth Party Congress said, "we should actively promote the reform of the political system to bring about a significant development in the construction of socialist democracy and the legal system." After this, the Communist Party of China made great efforts in strengthening our basic political system, improving the democratic centralism, improving the scientific and democratic mechanisms of decision-making, strengthening democratic construction at the grassroots level, and so on. Therefore, the claim that reform of our country's political system has stalled is groundless. Second, the basic principle of advancing the reform of the political system is to be "active and steady." What we mean by "active" is that the reform of the political system cannot stop and must be actively promoted. Especially when economic system reform enters a critical stage, and the socialist market economic system needs further improvement, political system reform must adapt accordingly.

Jiang Zemin pointed out in June 2000, "To bring the new socialist market economic system to a relatively complete level, a series of deep-seated problems need to be solved, including the management system and operating mechanisms of the government and the leadership system of the Party and the state, which all need to be further improved and perfected through deepened reform." Talking about system innovation, "we must constantly improve all aspects of the system that meet the requirements for developing a socialist market economy and comprehensively building socialism with Chinese characteristics." "Steadiness" is because the reform of the political system is a very complex system project that is very difficult. According to Deng Xiaoping, It was not until the mid-1980s that "the problem has not been completely sorted out." "This problem is too difficult. Each reform involves a wide range of people and things, it's profound, touches many people's interests, and will encounter many obstacles. It requires careful consideration... The country is so large, the situation is too complicated, reform is not easy, so decisions must be made cautiously."

Jiang Zemin pointed out in the report of the Fifteenth Party Congress, "Building socialist democratic politics is a gradually developing historical process, and it is necessary to start from China's national conditions and advance in an orderly manner under the leadership of the Party." Therefore, the reform of the political system cannot be rushed, the only option is to take the policy of being "active and steady."

According to the overall goal of political system reform proposed by Deng Xiaoping and the specific requirement of "sorting out the head", the thought of further integrating and promoting political system reform is integrated. Jiang Zemin pointed out in the report of the Fifteenth Party Congress, "Now and for a period of time to come, the main tasks of political system reform are to develop democracy, strengthen the legal system, carry out the separation of government and enterprises, streamline institutions, perfect the democratic supervision system, and maintain stability and unity." In April 2001, he proposed six principles for promoting the reform of the political system:

(1) Reforming the leadership system of the Party and the state is not to weaken the leadership of the Party, but to strengthen and improve the leadership of the Party.



To be conducive to consolidating the socialist system, conducive to consolidating party leadership, and conducive to developing social productivity under the leadership of the party and under the socialist system.
(2) The goal of reform is to always maintain the vitality of the party and the state, overcome bureaucracy, improve work efficiency, expand grassroots democracy, and mobilize the enthusiasm of grassroots workers, peasants, and intellectuals.
(3) Persist in strengthening and improving democracy within the party, in order to continuously promote the development of people's democracy.
(4) Whether the reform is successful depends on whether the state's political situation is stable, whether it can enhance the unity of people of all ethnic groups, improve people's lives, and whether productivity can continue to develop.
(5) We cannot lose the superiority of our socialist system, and we cannot copy the so-called democracy of the West. We should decide on the content and steps of reform based on our own practice and situation.
(6) The reform of the political system is complex, and every measure involves the interests of millions of people. It needs to be conducted step by step, with leadership and order.
These principles have further strengthened and clarified the idea of advancing the reform of the political system in a positive and prudent direction.
2. Completing the System of Multi-party Cooperation and Political Consultation Led by the Communist Party of China
The system of multi-party cooperation and political consultation led by the Communist Party of China is a basic political system of our country and an important aspect of political system reform. In 1987, the thirteenth CPC congress proposed the task of reforming the political system, and it was proposed to improve the "multi-party cooperation and political consultation system led by the Communist Party".
After the Thirteenth Congress of the Party, some members of the democratic parties and non-party people in Beijing proposed views and suggestions on the issue of "multi-party cooperation". In early January 1989, after reading, Deng Xiaoping instructed: “A special group can be organized (members must be from democratic parties) to specifically formulate a plan for democratic party members to participate in politics and perform supervisory duties, and to complete it within one year, and start implementation next year." According to Deng Xiaoping's instruction, the special group was led by the Democratic Parties and the leaders of relevant departments such as the NPC Standing Committee, the State Council, the CPPCC, the Organization Department, the Propaganda Department, and the United Front Work Department participated. After more than a year of efforts, the drafting work was completed. In February 1990, the People's Daily published the "Opinions of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China on Adhering to and Improving the Multi-Party Cooperation and Political Consultation System Led by the Communist Party" (referred to as "Opinions"), which made regulations on many issues.
(1) On the form of political consultation..



The "Opinion" summarizes the effective experiences between the Communist Party of China and the democratic parties since the founding of New China, and believes that the following forms of consultation should be adopted: First, the chief leaders of the CPC Central Committee invite the main leaders of the democratic parties and representatives of non-partisan figures to hold high-level, small-scale heart-to-heart talks irregularly according to the needs of the situation, to freely discuss, exchange ideas, and solicit opinions on issues of common concern. Second, the CPC holds symposiums for democratic parties and non-partisan figures to report or exchange important information, convey important documents, and listen to policy suggestions from democratic parties and non-partisan figures or discuss certain topics. Third, in addition to conference consultations, various democratic parties and non-partisan figures can put forward written policy suggestions to the CPC Central Committee on major issues concerning the country's major policies and modernization, and can also invite the person in charge of the CPC Central Committee for direct talks.

(2) On the role of democratic parties in the People's Congress. The "Opinion" stipulates that members of democratic parties and non-partisan figures should hold appropriate proportions among the deputies of the National People's Congress, members of the Standing Committee, and members of the Standing Special Committee, and that members of democratic parties and non-partisan figures with corresponding expertise can be hired as advisors to the Special Committee. The People's Congress of provinces, autonomous regions, and municipalities directly under the Central Government should ensure that democratic party members and non-partisan figures hold appropriate proportions. In the People's Congress of cities, states, and counties, non-partisan figures should hold appropriate proportions. In cities, states, and counties with democratic party organizations, the democratic party members should hold appropriate proportions in the People's Congress.

(3) Regarding the leading positions of members of democratic parties and non-partisan figures in government and judicial organs at various levels. The "Opinion" believes that effective measures should be taken to select members of democratic parties and non-partisan figures to hold leading positions in the State Council and its relevant ministries and commissions, and in local governments and their relevant departments at the county level and above. It is necessary to recommend qualified members of democratic parties and non-partisan figures to hold leadership positions in prosecution and trial agencies. Hire a group of qualified members of democratic parties and non-partisan figures with specialized knowledge as special inspectors, prosecutors, auditors, and supervisory teachers, etc. The government's inspection, audit, industry and commerce and other departments' investigations into major cases, and tax and other inspections, can absorb members of democratic parties and non-partisan figures to participate.

(4) On the role of democratic parties in the CPPCC. The CPPCC should become an important venue for parties, people's organizations, and representatives from all walks of life to unite, cooperate, participate in politics, and discuss politics. The "Opinion" explicitly stipulates that at various CPPCC meetings, the freedom of CPPCC members to make criticisms and express different opinions must be effectively protected. Democratic party members and non-partisan figures should hold a certain proportion among the standing members and leading members of the CPPCC. There should be democratic party members and non-partisan figures participating in all special committees of the CPPCC. There should be a certain number of democratic party members and non-partisan figures serving as full-time leaders in the CPPCC organs, and they should truly have positions, rights, and responsibilities.

The purpose of the CPC Central Committee in formulating this "Opinion" is to further play the role of democratic parties in participating in politics and democratic supervision. In accordance with this requirement, the "Opinion" makes clear provisions on a series of issues concerning the participation in politics by democratic parties: First, it clearly sets out the purpose of the participation of the participating parties; Second, it clearly points out the difference between the multi-party cooperation and political consultation system led by the Communist Party of China and the multi-party system in the West; Third, it clearly defines the relationship between the Chinese Communist Party and the various democratic parties; Fourth, it further clarifies the basic policy of the Chinese Communist Party's cooperation with the democratic parties; Fifth, it points out the basic point of the democratic parties' participation in politics; Sixth, it lays down the general principles for the democratic parties to play their supervisory role; Seventh, it stipulates the activity guidelines of the democratic parties.



This "Opinion" is a summing up of both positive and negative experiences from the long-term revolutionary and construction practices of the multi-party cooperation and political consultation system led by the Communist Party of China (CPC). Practically, it marks the systematic and standardized development of the multi-party cooperation and political consultation system led by the CPC; theoretically, it has enriched and developed the Marxist theory of party relations by summarizing the practical experience of several decades of cooperation between the CPC and various democratic parties. The formulation and implementation of the "Opinion" is a significant step in advancing political system reform and strengthening the building of socialist democratic politics. It is of great and far-reaching significance for fully leveraging the advantages of the socialist system led by the CPC and developing socialist democratic politics. In December 2000, Jiang Zemin pointed out in his speech at the National United Front Work Conference that "the multi-party cooperation and political consultation system led by the Communist Party is a crystallization of the political experience and wisdom of the Chinese people. The distinguishing feature of our political system lies in the Communist Party's leadership, multi-party cooperation, the Communist Party's ruling, and multi-party participation in politics. The democratic parties are not opposition parties or opposition parties, but friendly and participating parties closely cooperating with the Communist Party. The Communist Party and various democratic parties conduct democratic consultation and scientific 
decision-making on major national issues, concentrating their efforts on major issues. The Communist Party and the various democratic parties supervise each other, promoting the improvement of the leadership of the Communist Party and the strengthening of the construction of participating parties. This avoids political turbulence caused by multi-party competition and mutual undermines, and also avoids various problems caused by one-party dictatorship and lack of supervision. The tremendous advantage of our party system lies here, and the fundamental difference between our system and the one-party and multi-party systems abroad also lies here." This speech profoundly summarizes the political advantages of this basic political system and enriches the theory of Marxist democracy construction in China.
3. Develop grassroots autonomy and expand grassroots democracy
Regarding the overall thinking of political system reform, there was a significant change around the time of the 14th Party Congress. Before the 14th Party Congress, the approach was mostly top-down, but after the Congress, following a path from simple to complex, a combination of bottom-up and top-down was adopted, with the focus on advancing the building of grassroots democratic political systems and establishing them as a socialist democratic system that must be adhered to and improved.
The main content of grassroots democratic political construction includes the following: first, strengthening rural villagers' autonomy and establishing and improving village committees; second, advancing and improving urban community residents' autonomy system construction; third, giving full play to the role of enterprise worker's congress, making the participation of workers in enterprise democratic management institutionalized. As for rural villagers' autonomy, after the constitution passed in 1982 established the legal status of village committees as grassroots mass autonomous organizations in rural areas, the "Organic Law of Villager Committees of the People's Republic of China (Provisional)" passed by the Sixth National People's Congress Standing Committee in November 1987 made clear regulations on the nature, functions, and related issues of village committees. In November 1994, the Central Committee of the CPC issued a notice, requiring localities to conscientiously implement this law while strengthening the construction of rural grassroots party organizations, improve village committees and village groups, perfect the village self-governance system, and better play the role of grassroots mass autonomous organizations in self-management, self-education and self-service. Regarding the construction of the urban community residents' autonomy system, after the resident committee system was written into the "Constitution of the People's Republic of China" in 1982, the National People's Congress Standing Committee formulated the "Urban Residents' Committee Organization Law" in 1989, providing legal protection for the development of urban resident committees. As for the workers' representative congress, as a basic system for enterprises to build grassroots democratic politics and implement democratic management, it increasingly emphasizes its irreplaceable role in implementing democratic management in enterprises, coordinating labor relations, protecting the legal rights and interests of workers, and promoting the reform, development, and stability of enterprises.



The Fifteenth National Congress of the Party fully affirmed the practice of expanding grassroots democracy and ensuring that the people directly exercise democratic rights, considering this the most extensive practice of socialist democracy. Additionally, it further demanded to perfect the democratic election system in urban and rural grassroots political power and grassroots mass self-governing organizations, carry out political affairs and financial disclosure, let the masses participate in discussing and deciding on grassroots public affairs and public welfare industries, and carry out democratic supervision of officials. The democratic management system of enterprises and institutions with the worker's congress as the basic form should also continue to be persisted in and perfected, organizing workers to participate in reform and management, and safeguarding workers' legal rights and interests. It firmly corrected suppression of democracy and forced commands. According to this requirement, in April 1998, the General Office of the CPC Central Committee and the General Office of the State Council issued a notice on the universal implementation of village-level public affairs and democratic management in rural areas, proposing more specific requirements for perfecting democratic elections, democratic decision-making, democratic management, and democratic supervision. In June of the same year, the Organisation Law of the Villagers' Committees of the People's Republic of China (Draft Revision) prepared by the State Council was deliberated and approved at the fifth meeting of the Standing Committee of the Ninth National People's Congress in November of the same year. Subsequently, the work of democratically electing members of the village committee was fully launched in rural areas across the country, and the village self-governance system was gradually perfected. By the end of 2004, 644 thousand Villagers' Committees had been established in rural areas across the country. A vast majority of provinces, autonomous regions, and municipalities directly under the Central Government have generally completed five to six rounds of village committee elections.

In terms of the construction of urban grassroots democracy, in 1999, the Ministry of Civil Affairs carried out community construction pilots in 26 urban districts nationwide, strengthened the construction of residents' committees, and implemented democratic elections, democratic decision-making, democratic management, and democratic supervision. By the end of 2004, 71375 residents' committees had been established nationwide. As of September 2004, 595 thousand workers' congresses had been established in enterprises and institutions, covering 78.364 million workers, accounting for 58.5%.

With the deepening of the economic system reform, the central government places more emphasis on the positive role of the workers' congresses in state-owned enterprises in democratic management and democratic supervision. Jiang Zemin pointed out in October 1998: "Implementing democratic management by workers in state-owned enterprises, as well as implementing village self-governance in rural areas, are both important creations in our construction of socialist democracy with Chinese characteristics. In carrying out various tasks in enterprises, democratic management by the working masses can only be strengthened, not weakened. The greater the major issues related to enterprise reform, development and the vital interests of the masses, the more we must listen to the views of the majority of workers through the form of workers' congress, truly achieve collective decision-making and collective strength, jointly improve the management and efficiency of the enterprise." Many workers' congresses in enterprises have played a positive role in promoting the construction of grassroots democracy and the reform and development of enterprises.

II. Implementing the basic strategy of governing the country according to law

The development of socialist democracy must be closely tied to the improvement of the socialist legal system. This is an important task and necessary requirement for the development of socialist democratic politics. An important aspect of pushing forward political system reform is to continuously strengthen the construction of the socialist legal system. The 13th National Congress of the Party made new explorations in strengthening the socialist legal system construction when discussing political system reform, leading China's socialist democratic politics on a step-by-step path towards institutionalization and legalization. Under this ideological guidance, China's legal system and other institutional constructions have steadily progressed. In April 1990, the Central Committee pointed out in its notice on maintaining social stability and strengthening political and legal work: "Strengthening socialist democracy and the legal system is an important aspect of perfecting the socialist system, and also an important guarantee for maintaining social stability." In order to strengthen the leadership of political and legal work, Political and Legal Committees have been restored from the central to the local level.



In 1992, during the 14th National Congress of the Communist Party of China, along with establishing the goal of reforming the socialist market economy system, new requirements were established for perfecting socialist legality. Jiang Zemin pointed out: "We must strengthen legislative work, especially developing and improving laws and regulations that guarantee reform and opening up, strengthening macroeconomic management, and regulating microeconomic behavior. This is an urgent requirement for establishing a socialist market economy system." After the 14th National Congress, during the practice of reforming to establish a socialist market economy system, the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China emphasized repeatedly that the development and perfection of a socialist market economy system must be regulated and protected by comprehensive laws. We must learn to use legal means to manage the economy, and achieve unity between reform and opening up and the construction of the legal system. Therefore, the "Decision on Several Issues Concerning the Establishment of a Socialist Market Economy System" of 1993 clearly proposed the goals of legal construction, which is to adhere to the principles stipulated by the constitution, accelerate economic legislation, further improve civil and commercial law, criminal law, laws on state organizations, and administrative management, and initially establish a legal system suitable for a socialist market economy by the end of the 20th century.

Starting from December 1994, the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China began to hold legal lectures at the Wren Hall in Zhongnanhai from time to time. The leading members of the Central Political Bureau, the Central Secretariat, and the State Council took the lead in studying legal knowledge, promoting the conscientiousness of studying and applying law, and strengthening legal awareness throughout the party and society. In February 1996, when the Central Committee held the third legal lecture, Jiang Zemin proposed the idea of "governing the country according to law." He said in his concluding remarks that strengthening socialist legality and governing the country according to law is an important component of Deng Xiaoping’s theory of constructing socialism with Chinese characteristics, and it is an important policy for our party and government to manage state and social affairs. Implementing and adhering to the rule of law means gradually making each work of the state more lawful and standardized; it means that the broad masses of the people, under the guidance of the Communist Party, regulate, through various means and forms, the management of the state, the management of economic and cultural industries, and the management of social affairs, according to the provisions of the constitution and law, and gradually make socialist democracy institutionalized and lawful. Implementing and adhering to the rule of law is of great significance for promoting a sustained and healthy development in the economy and a comprehensive progress in society, and ensuring long-term national peace and stability. In March of the same year, the Fourth Session of the Eighth National People’s Congress adopted the "Nine-Five" Plan and the 2010 Long-Range Objectives Outline for National Economic and Social Development, which included "rule of law" as the goal and direction of political system reform.

In 1997, the 15th National Congress of the Communist Party of China, when making strategic deployments for development across the century, raised "governing the country according to law" to a more prominent position as a strategy for ruling the country. The report of the 15th National Congress of the Communist Party of China pointed out that: the development of democracy must be closely combined with the improvement of the legal system, and government must be conducted according to law. Governing the country according to law and building a socialist country under the rule of law is a basic strategy for the party to lead the people in governing the country, an objective need for the development of a socialist market economy, an important symbol of advanced social civilization, and an important guarantee for a long lasting peaceful and stable country. In March 1999, the Amendments to the Constitution passed by the Second Session of the Ninth National People’s Congress added "rule of law, constructing a socialist country under the rule of law" and established it in the form of the fundamental law of the state.

Since the Third Plenary Session of the 11th Central Committee of the Communist Party of China, huge achievements have been made in building the socialist legal system. As of the end of 2002, apart from revising the Constitution and four amendments to the Constitution, the National People's Congress and its Standing Committee have also enacted 297 laws and passed 125 decisions on legal issues. The State Council has made 933 administrative regulations. The socialist legal system of our country has initially formed. After the 15th National Congress of the Communist Party of China, under the basic strategy of "governing the country according to law, and constructing a socialist country under the rule of law," legislative efforts are further strengthened, judicial system reform is advanced, striving to form a socialist legal system with Chinese characteristics by 2010.



III. Enrichment and Development of the Concept for the Construction of a Socialist Spiritual Civilization in Practice
While promoting reform and opening up, and focusing on economic development, the concept of building a socialist spiritual civilization has been gradually enriched. The "Resolution on the Guiding Principles for the Construction of Socialist Spiritual Civilization" in September 1986 played a significant role in the practice of constructing a spiritual civilization. At the beginning of 1992, Deng Xiaoping's Southern Tour Speech elevated the construction of a spiritual civilization to a new height, emphasizing the importance of grasping both hands, being hard in both hands, and building two civilizations that surpass capitalism. The Fourteenth National Congress of the Communist Party of China clearly pointed out that "both the material civilization and the spiritual civilization should be well-developed to be a socialism with Chinese characteristics", and listed the construction of a socialist spiritual civilization as the driving force for the development of socialism with Chinese characteristics along with the development of a socialist market economy and socialist democratic politics, emphasizing the importance of the construction of spiritual civilization. These discussions not only further clarified the important position of spiritual civilization construction in the construction of socialism with Chinese characteristics, but also further clarified the basic principles of spiritual civilization construction. The principle of "emphasizing on the construction of spiritual civilization" is a scientific conclusion drawn from the lessons of history. It requires the resolution of ideological issues through discussion, argument, education, and guidance. Only by adhering to this "emphasis on construction" can we fully mobilize the enthusiasm and creativity of the masses in building socialism, and build a vibrant and thriving socialism with Chinese characteristics. This is a major advance in the guiding principles for the construction of socialist spiritual civilization.
Under the impetus of the Southern Tour Speech and the spirit of the 14th National Congress of the Communist Party of China, the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China has made new explorations and progress in the theory and practice of spiritual civilization construction in strengthening ideological and moral construction, and developing education, science, and cultural undertakings.
In terms of strengthening ideological and moral construction, the Fourteenth National Congress emphasized: Carry out education on the Party's basic line, patriotic education, collectivism, and socialist ideological education among all ethnic groups across the country, especially among young people, to establish correct ideals, beliefs, and values. After the conference, various forms of patriotic, collectivist, and socialist educational activities were widely carried out throughout the society. On August 23, 1994, the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China issued the "Outline for the Implementation of Patriotic Education", which clearly stipulated and deployed the guiding principles, main content, and key points of work for carrying out patriotic education, and required relevant departments at all levels to regard patriotism as the foundation of the construction of socialist spiritual civilization. On August 30, the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China also issued the "Several Opinions on Further Strengthening and Improving Moral Education in Schools", requiring the education front to understand the importance of moral education in schools in the new era from a historical height and strategic perspective. In accordance with the central requirements, Party committees at all levels have made plans and deployments to carry out patriotic education, and have made great efforts to build patriotic education bases and create a social atmosphere for patriotic education.
In terms of publicity and ideological work, Jiang Zemin stated in his speech at the National Conference on Publicity and Ideological Work in January 1994: Publicity and ideological work must arm people with scientific theories, guide people with correct public opinions, shape people with noble spirits, inspire people with excellent works, and constantly cultivate and create generation after generation of socialist new people with ideals, morals, culture, and discipline, playing a powerful ideological and public opinion support role in the great cause of building socialism with Chinese characteristics. This is not only the guiding principle of cultural propaganda in the new era, but also of great guiding significance for improving the effectiveness of various measures for the construction of spiritual civilization.
Regarding the development of education, the Fourteenth National Congress further emphasized: Education must be placed in a priority development strategic position, and the ideological, moral and scientific cultural level of the entire nation must be improved. This is the fundamental plan for realizing modernization in our country. Therefore, the Fourteenth National Congress solemnly announced that by the end of the 20th century, it would basically eliminate illiteracy among young and middle-aged people, and basically achieve nine-year compulsory education.



The China Youth Development Foundation launched the "Project Hope" in October 1989, which aimed to facilitate education for dropout youths and provide support to schooling in impoverished areas through societal fundraising. This project immediately garnered widespread societal backing. In May 1990, the country's first "Hope Primary School" was set up in Jinzhai County, Anhui Province. The initiation of "Project Hope" has constructed a bridge to education for impoverished youths, thus exerting considerable influence on the development of education.

In terms of cultural development, the emphasis was on promoting the main melody of the times. In 1991, the Central Propaganda Department, sponsored by the CPC Central Committee, organized and implemented the "Five-One Project" among their endeavors of spiritual civilization construction. This project was aimed at propagating the main melody of the times and excellent traditional culture. Provinces, autonomous regions, municipalities directly under the central government, and central state organs, among others, participated in the project. Every year, they produced a good book, play, film, TV drama, and a sound theoretical article, with added good song, radio drama, and a good TV theoretical feature later on. Since the implementation of this project, excellent works that passionately praise the theme of reform and opening up, socialist modernization, and conscientiously answer significant theoretical and practical issues have continuously emerged in reality.

Gradually as measures for the construction of spiritual civilization fell into place, spiritual civilization and socio-economic development became increasingly intertwined. At the Fifth Plenary Session of the 14th Central Committee of the Party in September 1995 and in March 1996, the Fourth Session of the Eighth National People's Congress reviewed and approved the "Ninth Five-Year Plan" and the long-term objectives for 2010, integrating the construction of a spiritual civilization into socio-economic development planning.

In order to enhance the Party's guidance on the construction of spiritual civilization under the conditions of a socialist market economy, in October 1996, the Sixth Plenary Session of the 14th Central Committee of the Party passed the "Resolution on Several Important Issues Concerning the Construction of Socialist Spiritual Civilization" (or the "Resolution" for short). This is the second resolution adopted by the Central Committee within ten years specifically for the purpose of strengthening the construction of the socialist spiritual civilization. This resolution focuses on our grand objective of development into the next century and further clarifies the guiding ideology, overall requirements, and main objectives for the construction of socialist spiritual civilization in the next 15 years. The "Resolution" points out that the guiding ideology and overall requirements for the construction of spiritual civilization are: To guide the construction of Chinese socialism with the theories of Marxism-Leninism, Mao's Thought and Deng Xiaoping's Theory, to adhere to the Party's basic line and basic policy; to strengthen thought and moral construction and develop education, science and culture; to arm people with scientific theories, guide people with correct public opinions, mold people with noble spirit, inspire people with excellent works; to nurture socialist citizens with ideals, morals, culture, and discipline; to enhance the ideological, moral and scientific-cultural standards of the whole nation; to unite and mobilize people of all ethnic groups to build our country into a socialist modernization nation that is prosperous, democratic, and civilized.

Regarding the main objectives for 15 years of the socialist spiritual civilization construction from 1996 to 2010, the "Resolution" stipulates: To firmly establish the common ideal of socialism with Chinese characteristics among the entire nation, and to firmly establish the firm belief of adherence to the party's basic policy line without wavering; to significantly improve the civic quality with the major content of ideological, moral cultivation, and the level of scientific education, the outlook on democracy and the rule of law; to significantly improve the quality of cultural life with the main requirements of being positive, healthy, rich and diverse, and in service of the people; to significantly improve the degree of urban and rural civilization marked by social atmosphere, public order, living environment; to form a good situation of balanced development between material civilization construction and spiritual civilization construction nationwide.



The "Resolution" initially summarized the experience of spiritual civilization construction under the new situation of the socialist market economy, fully affirming that the development of the socialist market economy helps to enhance people's sense of independence, competitiveness, efficiency, democratic legal awareness and pioneering and innovative spirit. At the same time, it clearly points out that the weaknesses and negative aspects of the market itself will also be reflected in spiritual life. Strengthening the construction of spiritual civilization requires guiding people to correctly handle the relationship between competition and cooperation, autonomy and supervision, efficiency and fairness, the rich first and the rich later, economic benefits and social benefits, advocating putting the interests of the state and the people first while fully respecting the legitimate interests of individual citizens, and strictly preventing the principle of commodity exchange in economic activities from being introduced into the political life of the Party and the political activities of state organs. These experiences reflect the Party's new thinking on the issue of spiritual civilization construction under market economy conditions. The "Resolution" adopted at the Sixth Plenary Session of the Fourteenth Central Committee of the Party marked a new level of understanding of the Party on the construction of spiritual civilization.

After the Sixth Plenary Session of the Fourteenth Central Committee of the Party, all regions and departments have made increased investment in the construction of spiritual civilization and the launching of mass activities for the creation of spiritual civilization an important content in formulating development plans and long-term goals. In order to ensure the implementation of the "Resolution" from an organizational perspective, in May 1997, the CPC Central Committee decided to establish the Central Spiritual Civilization Construction Steering Committee as the central body for guiding the nationwide construction of spiritual civilization. Subsequently, provinces, autonomous regions, and municipalities directly under the central government have successively established corresponding institutions to strengthen the construction of spiritual civilization. Mass activities, with the creation of civilized cities, towns, and industries as the main content, are booming across the country, presenting a lively scene of concerted efforts by all sides and active participation by the masses, creating a good atmosphere for reform and opening up and economic construction.

IV. Developing advanced socialist culture with Chinese characteristics
The development of advanced socialist culture with Chinese characteristics is an inherent requirement for comprehensively promoting the cause of socialism with Chinese characteristics, and it is also the goal of the construction of socialist spiritual civilization. The central leadership collective, with Jiang Zemin at its core, has been striving to explore the correct path of developing advanced socialist culture with Chinese characteristics.

In his speech celebrating the 40th anniversary of the founding of the PRC in 1989, Jiang Zemin pointed out: The construction of spiritual civilization, in the final analysis, is to improve the quality of the entire nation and cultivate the "four haves" modern man. "It is inconceivable that a nation without a strong spiritual pillar can stand on its own in the forest of nations in the world." He emphasized the need to actively absorb all the fine achievements in the historical culture of our country and foreign cultures, and to "oppose the national nihilism that denies traditional Chinese culture and the thinking that worships foreign things". In his speech celebrating the 70th anniversary of the Party's founding in 1991, Jiang Zemin expounded on the guiding ideology, basic elements, and development direction of socialist cultural construction when discussing "socialist culture with Chinese characteristics". He pointed out that we should "resist and eliminate all backward and decadent ideological and cultural influences, and continually create advanced and healthy new socialist culture". "Only by deeply rooted in China's land and relying on the power of the people, facing modernization, the world, and the future, can we create a socialist culture worthy of the great era." Here, the thought seed of developing advanced socialist culture with Chinese characteristics has been sprouted.

In 1997, the report of the fifteenth Party congress elaborated on the construction of the cultural program of socialism with Chinese characteristics, adding the requirement to develop a "nationally scientific mass socialist culture", emphasizing the need to "build a socialist spiritual civilization based on Chinese reality, inheriting historical cultural traditions, and absorbing beneficial results of foreign cultures". The new definition of "culture of socialism with Chinese characteristics" by the fifteenth Party congress highlights its "cultural" colors and is basically connected with the connotations of socialist spiritual civilization. Jiang Zemin pointed out: "The culture of socialism with Chinese characteristics, in terms of its main content, is consistent with the socialist spiritual civilization that we have consistently advocated since the reform and opening up. Culture, relative to the economy and politics...



"Spiritual civilization is in contrast to material civilization. Only with coordinated development of economy, politics and culture, and the careful development of both civilizations, can we have socialism with Chinese characteristics." Here, the different corresponding relationships of "civilization" and "culture" are clearly spelled out. Based on such understanding, in order to gradually perfect their respective corresponding relationships, from the 15th National Congress of the Communist Party onwards, this new expression of understanding became a sign of the transition from the theory of socialist spiritual civilization construction to the development of advanced socialist cultural thought with Chinese characteristics.

In February 2000, after Jiang Zemin delivered his "Three Represents" speech, the notion of developing an advanced socialist culture with Chinese characteristics became increasingly prominent. In the "Three Represents" theory, not only is the concept of "advanced culture" particularly noteworthy, but also it closely connects the development of an advanced culture with party construction. Jiang Zemin said, "Since our party represents the advance direction of advanced culture, all Party comrades must persist in taking Marxism as their guide, strive to inherit and develop all the fine cultural traditions of the Chinese nation, strive to learn and absorb the excellent cultural achievements of all foreign countries, thereby constantly creating and promoting socialist culture with Chinese characteristics, and striving for the coordinated development of socialist material civilization and spiritual civilization, and social progress." 

In his "July 1st" speech in 2001, Jiang Zemin reviewed, from a historical perspective, the Chinese Communist Party's role in representing the advance direction of advanced culture and promoting the historical process and great successes of socialist cultural construction, while also expounding, from a realistic perspective, the theory and practical principles of the Chinese Communist Party  continuing to represent the advanced direction of China's advanced culture. He pointed out, "Our party should always represent the advancement direction of Chinese advanced culture, which means that the party's theories, lines, programs, policies, and all work must strive to reflect the requirements of developing modern, world-facing, future-oriented, our nation's scientific and mass socialism culture; promote the continuous improvement of the ideological and moral quality and scientific cultural quality of the whole nation; and provide spiritual momentum and intellectual support for our country's economic development and social progress." 

He also said, "In contemporary China, developing advanced culture means developing the culture of socialism with Chinese characteristics, and building a socialist spiritual civilization." Thus, the relationships among the three concepts of "advanced culture," "culture of socialism with Chinese characteristics," and "socialist spiritual civilization" are clear, and their connotations are identical. The "July 1st" speech also discussed the dialectical relationship of comprehensively grasping the construction of the two civilizations, firmly grasping the development trend and requirements of China's advanced culture, the fundamental task of cultural development of socialism, and the relationship with inheriting and carrying forward all excellent cultures, fully reflecting the spirit of the times and creative spirit. From this, the main framework of developing the advanced socialist culture with Chinese characteristics was essentially built. By the report of the 16th National Congress of the Communist Party in 2002, its chapter structure further unfolded and expounded respectively from "economic construction and economic system reform," "political construction and political system reform," and "cultural construction and reform." In the "cultural construction and reform" section, it comprehensively discussed the content of advanced socialist culture with Chinese characteristics, and put forward the overall requirements for developing the advanced socialist culture with Chinese characteristics in the new century.

According to Jiang Zemin's above explanation, developing the advanced socialist culture with Chinese characteristics generally includes the following basic principles. 

The first is to insist on the guidance of Marxism. Jiang Zemin pointed out, "What cultural direction to adhere to and what kind of culture to promote is a banner of a political party in terms of thought and spirit." The insistence on the guidance position of Marxism, and not allowing diversification in guiding ideology, is the fundamental principle for building a socialist culture with Chinese characteristics.

The second is to commit to cultivating the "Four Haves" new people as the fundamental task for constructing the advanced socialist culture with Chinese characteristics. “The fundamental task of developing socialist culture is to cultivate generation after generation of citizens with ideals, morals, culture and discipline."



"This is a comprehensive requirement for the quality of all citizens. Whether it comes to building socialist spiritual civilization or developing advanced socialist culture with Chinese characteristics, this task must be undertaken. It serves as the fundamental driving force for the advancement and development of the undertaking of socialism with Chinese characteristics.
Thirdly, it is to adhere to the "two services" orientation and the "double hundred" policy. Serving the people and serving socialism is the fundamental purpose of the development of socialist culture. Letting "a hundred flowers bloom" and "a hundred schools of thought contend" is the basic policy for constructing socialist culture. After the Third Plenum of the Eleventh Central Committee, both Deng Xiaoping and Jiang Zemin have repeatedly emphasized that the "double hundred" policy must not be altered or abandoned, and must be upheld forever. This policy reflects the characteristics and laws of cultural development and serves as the essential policy for promoting the prosperity and development of advanced socialist culture with Chinese characteristics.
Fourthly, it is to adhere to the development direction of "facing modernization, facing the world, and facing the future". The "three facing" direction guarantees that the construction of socialist culture with Chinese characteristics has distinct characteristics of the times. To achieve the "three facings", we must also adhere to the principle of "using the past for the present, using foreign things for Chinese purposes". We should take the essence and remove the dross of traditional national culture, develop it in line with the characteristics of the times, and constantly innovate to make it shine brightly. We also need to actively absorb all the excellent cultural achievements created by mankind, and incorporate them into the culture of socialism with Chinese characteristics. Only by rooting deeply in the land of China, relying on the power of the people, facing modernization, the world, and the future, can we create a socialist culture worthy of the great era."
Fifthly, it is to adhere to the essence and characteristics of the socialist culture with Chinese characteristics that are "national, scientific, and popular". Its "nationality" lies in its origin in the 5000 years of Chinese civilization and its grounding in the practice of socialism with Chinese characteristics; it has national forms that the masses love to hear and see, and it has rich content that reflects the modern lifestyle, ways of thinking, moral sentiments, aesthetic tastes, and customs of the people. Its "scientific nature" lies in its advocacy of science, its opposition to superstition, and its resolute struggle against all feudal ignorance and pseudo-scientific decaying ideological culture. Its "popularity" lies in its origin in the people, its service to the people, its education of the people, and its enjoyment by the masses.
To sum up, building advanced socialist culture with Chinese characteristics means vigorously developing advanced culture, supporting healthy and beneficial culture, striving to transform backward culture, resolutely resisting decaying culture, constantly enriching people's spiritual world, constantly strengthening people's spiritual strength, and striving to form theories that reflect the requirements of China's advanced productive forces, directions for China's advanced culture, the fundamental interests of the majority of the Chinese people, and the guiding principles of public opinion, spiritual pillars, and cultural conditions.
While the theoretical understanding of advanced socialist culture with Chinese characteristics is continuously enriched and perfected, the Party Central Committee has also emphasized several important aspects of the specific implementation of advanced socialist culture with Chinese characteristics and has increased its efforts to improve and reform its investment."



Firstly, promoting the healthy development of social cultural undertakings and the socialist market economy through strengthening the construction of ideological and moral character. Ideological and political work is an important political advantage of the Communist Party of China. Jiang Zemin pointed out that the more the economy develops, the more the reform and opening up, the more important it is to pay attention to ideological and political work. "Strengthening the construction of socialist ideology and morality is an important content and central link in the development of advanced culture." In September 2001, based on years of practical experience, the Party Central Committee issued the "Outline for the Implementation of Citizen Moral Construction". The "Outline for the Implementation of Citizen Moral Construction" proposes: to firmly establish the common ideals and correct world outlook, outlook on life, and values of building socialism with Chinese characteristics among the whole nation; to strongly advocate the basic moral norms of "patriotic observance of law, courtesy, integrity, unity and friendliness, diligence and self-improvement, dedication to duty" throughout the society; to establish a socialist ideological and moral system that is adapted to the socialist market economy, coordinated with socialist legal norms, and inherited from the traditional virtues of the Chinese nation.

Secondly, promoting and cultivating the great national spirit. The national spirit is a spiritual support for a nation's survival and development. A nation without an uplifting spirit and noble character cannot stand in the world of nations. Jiang Zemin pointed out that during the development of more than five thousand years, the Chinese nation has formed a great national spirit of solidarity, peace-loving, hardworking, brave, and self-improving, with patriotism at its core. This national spirit is vast, profound, long-standing, and an indispensable important component in the life of the Chinese nation. This national spirit, in combination with the good traditions and spirit of the times that our party has led the people to form in the long-term revolution, construction and reform, is the strong spiritual motivation for the Chinese nation’s continuous growth and development. 

Thirdly, promoting the development of cultural undertakings fundamentally through developing education and science. The hundred-year plan is based on education; the rise and fall of the nation's fortune is related to education. Education is the foundation for the development of science and technology and the cultivation of talents. It exerts a leading role in the process of modernization and must be placed in a strategic position for priority development. Deng Xiaoping pointed out: "We must try our best, be patient in other ways, and even sacrifice a bit of speed to solve the problem of education well." Jiang Zemin once emphasized that the strategic position of education for priority development must always be adhered to in the process of building socialism with Chinese characteristics and cannot be compromised. If we do not see the problem of education this way, we will lose the opportunity, delay major issues, and commit historical mistakes. Considering that philosophy and social sciences have not received the attention they deserve in society, Jiang Zemin pointed out that philosophy and social sciences are important tools for people to understand and transform the world, and they are important forces for promoting historical development and social progress. "In the process of understanding and transforming the world, philosophy and social sciences are as important as natural sciences; cultivating high-level scholars in philosophy and social sciences is as important as cultivating high-level scholars in natural sciences; improving the philosophical and social science literacy of the national population is as important as improving the national science literacy; employing and fully exerting the role of talents in philosophy and social sciences is as important as employing and fully exerting the role of talents in natural sciences." Some regions and departments' tendency to overlook philosophy and social sciences should be corrected.



Fourthly, vigorously promoting the reform of cultural system. Since the Fourth Plenary Session of the Thirteenth Central Committee of the Party, the Party Central Committee has vigorously promoted the reform of the cultural management system in accordance with the features and rules of socialist spiritual civilization construction, to adapt to the requirements of the development of the socialist market economy. The national conference on propaganda and ideological work held in January 1994 further clarified the cultural construction guidelines of promoting the main melody and advocating diversification. All regions and departments have insisted on orientation, total volume, structure, and benefits in cultural construction, actively cultivating the socialist cultural market and developing it healthily. On this basis, the Sixth Plenary Session of the 14th Party Central Committee held in 1996 made a detailed plan for the development of socialist cultural undertakings facing the new century. The plenary pointed out: the prosperity of literature and art, the primary task is to produce excellent works that combine thoughtfulness and artistry under the guidance of the correct guideline, which have strong attractiveness and influence; the news propaganda must adhere to the party principles, strive for truth from facts, focus on uniting and stabilizing spirits, mainly positive propaganda, and firmly grasp the correct public opinion orientation; Philosophy and social sciences must adhere to the guidance of Marxism-Leninism, Mao Zedong Thought and Deng Xiaoping's theory of constructing socialism with Chinese characteristics, adhere to the theory and practice in connection, serve the party and government decision-making, serve the construction of two civilizations; The cultural market should grasp prosperity and management, vigorously support healthy cultural products, advocate beneficial cultural and entertainment activities that are suitable for the consumption level of the masses, and promote the healthy development of the cultural market. To achieve the above goals, the reform of the cultural management system must be continued to quickly form a development pattern in which the state guarantees key points and encourages social cultural undertakings.

Under the above ideological guidance, the reform of the cultural management system and the mechanism of operation has gradually deepened. Regarding the ownership, it has changed the long-standing practice of the state managing cultural affairs, allowing the development of cultural industries in various forms of ownership. In terms of administrative management, it has established the cultural affairs management system of category guidance and level management, reformed the personnel system and distribution system inside cultural affairs units, changed the past notion of nurturing individuals to nurturing affairs, fully stimulating the vitality of cultural affairs units.

After the Sixth Plenary Session of the 14th Central Committee of the Party and the 15th National Congress of the Party, cultural construction, with the “Quality Strategy” at its core, has entered a new phase of prosperity and development under the push of strengthened management and deepened reform. All departments and regions, in addition to continuing to earnestly organise and implement the "Five-One Project" for spiritual civilisation construction, have also strengthened the management of spiritual product production and the cultural market. The state has successively formulated and improved regulations such as the Publishing Management Regulations, the Printing Industry Management Regulations, the Audiovisual Product Management Regulations, the Commercial Performance Management Regulations, and the Radio and Television Management Regulations, providing necessary legal and policy support for cultural quality products entering the market, ensuring that healthy cultural products firmly occupy a dominant position in the cultural market. By the end of 2000, the national population coverage rates of radio and television reached 92.1% and 93.4% respectively, an increase of 13.4% and 8.9% respectively over 1995. Excellent works that reflect the spirit of the times and are close to people's lives continue to emerge. Through the organisation of the "Five-One Project" award-winning works exhibitions, excellent works have fully played a demonstrative role. The cultural front of socialism has been further consolidated, forming a healthy and upward public opinion environment, a civilized and harmonious social atmosphere, and a rich and colorful cultural life.

After the Fourth Plenary Session of the Thirteenth Central Committee of the Party, a comparatively complete and systematic theory was constructed for constructing advanced socialist culture with Chinese characteristics. This is a new development of Marxist cultural construction thought under new historical conditions and a new achievement on the path of sinicization of Marxism.

Chapter Nine: The Reform and Opening-up's Cross Century Development Strategy and the Development of Socialism with Chinese Characteristics
After the 1990s, centering on Jiang Zemin, the Central Committee of the Party has made comprehensive arrangements and deployments on how China can cross the century, from the aspect of development strategy, diplomacy, national defense and reunification of the motherland in advancing the cause of socialism with Chinese characteristics.




These issues fully reflect the theoretical development and practical innovation of Marxism conducted by the third generation of central leadership in combination with the world situation and national conditions faced by China.
I. Formulation of Strategies for Reform and Opening-up and Modernization Construction for Cross-century Development
Entering the 1990s, with the early realization of the strategic goals of the "first step" and the "second step" of China's social development, the third generation of the Party's leadership, with Jiang Zemin at its core, made new plans for the realization of the "third step" strategic goals, and successively put forward a series of strategic deployments such as "Rejuvenating the country through science and education", "Sustainable development", and "Combining bringing in and going global", further enriching and developing China's unique modernization development strategy.
1. Strategy for Revitalizing the Country through Science and Education and Sustainable Development
Both strategies for revitalizing the country through science and education and for sustainable development are major strategic decisions put forward by the Party Central Committee according to Deng Xiaoping's theory and the Party's basic line, with a scientific analysis of the trends in world economy and social development and aiming at achieving the grand goal of the "three-step strategy".
From the late 1970s to the early 1990s, Deng Xiaoping repeatedly emphasized: "To realize the four modernizations, science and technology are key, and the foundation is education", "In the long run, we must pay attention to education and science and technology", "Science and technology is the primary productive force", etc.
In the 1990s, the central leadership with Jiang Zemin at its core further clarified the strategic thought of revitalizing the country through science and education on the basis of inheriting Deng Xiaoping's theory, and listed it as a basic national policy. At the 14th National Congress of the Party in 1992, Jiang Zemin pointed out: "We must shift the economic construction to the track of relying on scientific and technological progress and improving the quality of labor." The decision issued on May 6, 1995 by the Central Committee of the CPC and the State Council on accelerating scientific and technological progress for the first time proposed the strategy of rejuvenating the country through science and education nationwide. Jiang Zemin pointed out: "Rejuvenating the country through science and education refers to fully implementing the idea that science and technology is the primary productive force, adhering to education as the basis, placing science and technology and education in an important position in economic and social development, strengthening the country's scientific and technological strength and the ability to transform productive forces, and improving the scientific and technological cultural quality of the entire nation." The same year, the Fifth Plenary Session of the Fourteenth Central Committee included the implementation of the strategy of rejuvenating the country through science and education as one of the important guidelines for accelerating the construction of socialist modernization in our country for the next 15 years until the 21st century in the recommendations on the "Ninth Five-Year" Plan and the long-term goals for 2010 for national economic and social development. In 1996, the Fourth Session of the Eighth National People's Congress formally adopted the "Ninth Five-Year" Plan and the long-term goals for 2010 for national economic and social development, and "Rejuvenating the country through science and education" as a result became a basic national policy.
Revitalizing the country through science and education not only promotes rapid economic construction, it also promotes harmonious economic and social development. Realizing both speed and harmony demands fully considering the sustainability of development, so that the scale and speed of development are suitable for the basic national conditions and in line with the objective laws of economic and social development. For this reason, after China's economic construction experienced rapid development in the 1980s, the Party Central Committee began to pay more attention to the issue of sustainable development in our country, and put forward the strategy of sustainable development on the basis of summarizing China's historical experience, learning from the lessons of industrialized countries in the world, and keeping in mind the laws of economic development. 
In October 1993, based on Deng Xiaoping's idea about coordinated development of population, environment and resources and China's actual conditions, the Party Central Committee and the State Council proposed the idea of implementing the strategy of sustainable development in China. In 1994, the Chinese government drew up and approved the "Agenda 21 for China—White Paper on Population, Environment and Development in China in the 21st Century", establishing the overall strategic framework and main goals for sustainable development in China in the 21st century. In March 1996, the Session of the Eighth National People's Congress approved the outline of the "Ninth Five-Year" Plan and the long-term goals for 2010 for national economic and social development, making sustainable development an important guiding principle and strategic goal, and made a major decision to implement the strategy of sustainable development in China's economic and social development in the future.



The 15th National Congress of the Party reaffirmed this strategic decision, emphasizing: Our country has a large population and relatively scarce resources, so in the process of modernization, we must implement a sustainable development strategy. The sustainable development strategy is a major breakthrough over traditional development concepts. It thoroughly elucidates the significant issues regarding China's future development from a new perspective, proposing a basic approach to a series of issues such as how a country like China, which is economically and culturally lagging, and where the development level of productive forces is extremely unbalanced, can build socialism, promote economic growth, and comprehensive social development. It points out the correct direction of development for the construction of socialism with Chinese characteristics.

2. Western Development Strategy

The implementation of the Western Development Strategy and the acceleration of the development of the central and western regions are major decisions made by the Party Central Committee with Jiang Zemin at its core in the late 20th century, based on Deng Xiaoping's strategic thinking about the "two major situations" of China's modernization construction, looking forward to the overall situation and facing the 21st century.

In 1988, after the comprehensive implementation of reform, opening up, and modernization, Deng Xiaoping proposed the strategic idea of "two major situations." He said: "The coastal area needs to accelerate opening up to the outside world, so that this vast area with 200 million people can develop faster, thereby promoting better development in the inland. This is an issue of great concern. The inland needs to consider this overall situation. Conversely, when development has reached a certain point, the coast will be required to put forth more effort to help inland development, which is also a major situation. At that time, the coast also needs to comply with this overall situation." He predicted that by the end of the 20th century when the whole country reaches a well-off level, more strength needs to be put into helping the central and western regions to develop faster. In 1995, with the early completion of the second-step development goals of our country's modernization strategy, the Party Central Committee began to consider Deng Xiaoping's second major situation in their planning, making it a key guideline to gradually narrow regional development gaps and promote regional economic coordination in drafting the "Ninth Five-Year" plan and 2010 strategic objectives. The 15th National Congress of the Party also explicitly stated in 1997: We must promote the reasonable distribution and coordinated development of regional economies, and gradually reduce the regional economic development gap. The Central Committee, in accordance with the general principle of "overall planning, adapting to local circumstances, playing to advantages, division of labor and cooperation, and coordinated development", has made a new comprehensive deployment for the healthy development of China's regional economy. On June 17, 1999, Jiang Zemin held a symposium on reform and development in the five northwestern provinces in Xi'an, proposing that the Western Development Strategy should be implemented opportunistically to accelerate the development of the central and western regions. He pointed out: Accelerating the development of the western region is a strategic development of the overall situation, which not only has significant economic significance, but also has significant political and social significance. The conditions for accelerating the development of the central and western regions are basically in place, and the timing is mature. From now on, this needs to be regarded as a major strategic task of the party and the state, and placed in a more prominent position.

After a series of preparations, in October 2000, the Fifth Plenary Session of the 15th Central Committee officially proposed the Western Development Strategy in the "Proposals on Formulating the Tenth Five-Year Plan for National Economic and Social Development". It pointed out: The implementation of the Western Development Strategy, accelerating the development of the central and western regions, is related to economic development, ethnic unity, social stability, regional coordinated development and ultimately achieving common prosperity. It is a major measure to achieve the third-step strategic goals. Since then, the Western Development Strategy has been rapidly implemented and has achieved significant results.



3. The "Bring In" and "Go Out" Combined Strategy
Following the new trend of world economic globalization and the developmental process of our country's reform and opening up, the Central Party Committee, at the turn of the century, proposed and implemented a combined "bring in" and "go out" strategy to further develop an all-round, multi-level, and extensive field of development. 
In February 1998, Jiang Zemin expounded on the policy to cope with the Asian financial crisis in the Second Plenary Session of the 15th Central Committee. He proposed that while actively expanding exports, leaders should step by step organize and support a group of powerful and advantageous state-owned enterprises to invest and set up factories abroad - both "bring in" and "go out". These are two interlinked and mutually promotional aspects of opening up to foreign involvement and are both indispensable. In October 2000, the 5th Plenary Session of the 15th Central Committee officially proposed to grasp opportunities, meet challenges, seek gains and avoid losses, promote all-round, multi-level and extensive fields of opening up. Develop an open economy, implement a "go out" strategy, strive to make new breakthroughs in using domestic and foreign resources and the two markets. 
In March 2001, the fourth session of the Ninth National People's Congress adopted the Outline of the Tenth Five-Year Plan for Economic and Social Development. It further proposed the implementation of the "go out" strategy of opening up. By the end of 2001, China had participated in 195 overseas resource cooperation projects, with a total investment of 4.6 billion US dollars; a total of 6610 various overseas enterprises had been established, with a total investment of 12.3 billion US dollars, of which Chinese investment was 8.4 billion US dollars; total foreign contractual engineering contracts signed was 99.7 billion US dollars, completed turnover was 71.5 billion US dollars, and exports were nearly 6 billion US dollars promoted; total foreign labor contracts signed were 26.8 billion US dollars, completed turnover was 20.7 billion US dollars, and foreign labor dispatched was 2.52 million people. 
The open strategy of combining "bring in" and "go out" has effectively promoted the development of the open economy, making the pattern of opening up in all directions, multi-levels, and wide fields clearer. China's economy has further integrated into the process of economic globalization, gaining a broader development space. This is another far-sighted decision made by the Central Party Committee on the development road across the century.
The proposal and implementation of the above development strategy reflects the objective process and rules of China's modernization construction, which not only has Chinese characteristics but also embodies the glorious tradition of Chinese Communists being good at combining Marxist basic principles with Chinese reality.
Second, the Deepening of State-owned Enterprise Reform
State-owned enterprises are the mainstay of China's national economy and have made significant contributions to the country's construction and development over the long term. However, due to the long-term operation under the planned economic system, the country's control over enterprises is excessive, the operating mechanism is rigid, and the role of the market is neglected, which makes the task of reform most arduous.
1. Achieving the three-year detargetation goal and establishment of the modern enterprise system



After the reform goal of establishing a socialist market economic system was established, from 1994, the reform of state-owned enterprises began to enter the stage of transforming the operating mechanism and establishing a modern enterprise system. With the transformation of the system and the drastic changes in the market environment, many contradictions and problems accumulated under the planned system of state-owned enterprises have also been exposed, mainly manifested as inactive mechanisms, and a considerable number of enterprises are not adapted to the requirements of the market economy. Therefore, in the fierce market competition, they fell into an unprecedented predicament. In the first quarter of 1996, after offsetting the profits and losses of the 68,800 independent accounting state-owned industrial enterprises nationwide, the first net loss since the founding of New China appeared.

In response to this situation, the Party Central Committee believes that the only way for state-owned enterprises to get out of the predicament is to adapt to the needs of the development of the socialist market economy, continue to accelerate and deepen reforms, and establish a modern enterprise system. For this reason, the Fifteenth National Congress of the Communist Party further clarified the direction of the reform of state-owned enterprises, and put forward the goal of striving to establish a modern enterprise system in most of the large and medium-sized backbone state-owned enterprises by the end of the 20th century, significantly improving their operating status, and creating new objectives for the reform and development of state-owned enterprises, thus pushing the reform of state-owned enterprises into a crucial stage.

The business difficulties of state-owned enterprises are not only due to inactive mechanisms, but also due to the unreasonable layout and structure of the state-owned economy, which is too long, too scattered, too small in scale, and low in quality. This is an important reason for high investment, low output, high consumption, and low benefits. If this layout and structure do not change, it will be difficult to advance the reform of individual enterprises. Therefore, the Fifteenth National Communist Party Congress also proposed: Adjust the layout of the state-owned economy from a strategic perspective. The state-owned economy must dominate important industries and key fields related to the lifeblood of the national economy; in other fields, it can be done through asset restructuring and structural adjustment to strengthen the emphasis and improve the overall quality of state-owned assets. The reform of state-owned enterprises should be combined with reorganization, transformation, and strengthened management, with a focus on the whole state-owned economy, managing the big ones, letting the small ones go, and implementing strategic reorganization of state-owned enterprises.

The First Plenary Session of the Fifteenth Central Committee clearly stated: It will take about three years to get out of the predicament of most large and medium-sized loss-making state-owned enterprises through reform, reorganization, transformation and strengthening management, and strive to establish a modern enterprise system in most large and medium-sized backbone state-owned enterprises by the end of the 20th century.

After the Fifteenth Party Congress, the comprehensive launch of the reform offensive focusing on establishing a modern enterprise system began. The pilot project of establishing a modern enterprise system that began in 1994 expanded significantly from 1997. The number of pilot cities for “optimizing capital structure” increased from 18 to 111, and the number of pilot projects for establishing corporate groups expanded from 56 to 120. Through these pilots, strategic reorganizations have been implemented for all state-owned enterprises in accordance with the requirements of developing a socialist market economy, establishing a new management system.

Large enterprise groups such as China National Petroleum Corporation, China Petrochemical Corporation, Shanghai Baosteel Group Corporation, the top ten groups of the defense industry, the top three groups of non-ferrous metals, and the top four groups of the information industry have been established one after another. These large enterprise groups operate according to market requirements, no longer undertake administrative functions, are authorized by the government to operate state-owned assets, and have enhanced their ability for self-development and participation in international competition.

The pilot cities of "optimizing capital structure" have begun to form a competitive mechanism of the survival of the fittest through encouraging mergers, standardizing bankruptcy, laying off and diverting employees, and reducing staff to increase efficiency.



For state-owned small enterprises, multiple avenues such as reorganization, association, merger, leasing, contracting, shareholding system, and sales were adopted to liberate and invigorate them. Regulations were also set on some key points in the sales process of small businesses. The defining trait of modern enterprise system is the corporation, and the typical forms of a corporation are a joint-stock company and a limited liability company. They are characterized by the amalgamation of small capital into a corporate entity through a shareholding mechanism to meet the demand for large-scale production in a socialized society, maximizing the added value of capital. This is a typical form of business organization in modern economic society. China's shareholding system reform began gradually in the mid to late 1980s, and by the early 1990s, a large number of pilot enterprises for the shareholding system had emerged across the country.

On December 19, 1990, and July 3, 1991, approved by the State Council, the Shanghai Stock Exchange and the Shenzhen Stock Exchange successively opened. After 1992, inspired by the essence of Deng Xiaoping's talks in the south, shareholding reform entered a new stage. In March of the same year, relevant departments of the State Council jointly formulated 11 regulations including the "Pilot Methods for Shareholding System Enterprises", further standardizing and promoting shareholding reform.

After 1998, in line with the requirements of establishing a modern enterprise system, a large number of state-owned enterprises carried out corporate and shareholding system reform. Many large enterprises and corporate groups, following international customs, successfully listed on domestic or overseas capital markets after asset restructuring. This not only raised a large amount of social capital, improved asset structure and operating conditions, but also played a crucial role in establishing a modern enterprise system, promoting a diverse financing system, expanding national fiscal revenue channels, and improving economic performance.

By the end of 2000, the listed companies in Shanghai and Shenzhen had reached 1088, with 1257 listed securities. The number of investors in the stock market reached 58.01 million. The total market value of stocks reached 4.8091 trillion yuan, accounting for more than 50% of GDP. In just a decade, China's shareholding economy had gone through the path that Western developed countries had taken more than a century, and played a significant role in the national economy.

To turn around the losses of state-owned enterprises, textile industry, the most severely loss-making industry, was selected as the breakthrough point. The restructuring was based on "slowing down, reducing staff, and improving efficiency", restructuring assets and adjusting production structures according to market demands, and changing operational mechanisms. In 1998, 5.12 million outdated cotton spinning frames were eliminated, and 660,000 laid-off workers were reallocated, resulting in a loss reduction of 2.6 billion yuan, which was an important step towards reversing losses in the whole industry within three years.

To ensure that state-owned enterprises achieve the goal of escaping difficulties through three years of reform, the Central Party Committee and the State Council also decided to establish the system of special inspectors of the State Council. The special inspectors of state-owned enterprises were staffed by officials at the deputy ministerial level or above. The national plan was to gradually dispatch special inspectors to 1,000 large enterprises and enterprise groups. The main task of the inspector is to audit, inspect the profits and losses and liabilities of the enterprise, assess the financial status and the work performance of key leadership members, and report to the State Council after auditing by relevant departments. Local governments dispatched supervisors to state-owned enterprises, state-owned sole proprietorships, and state-controlled companies that they were responsible for supervising.



On April 28, 1998, the first group of 21 special inspectors and more than 80 special inspector assistants began training. In order to ensure that the special envoys perform their duties effectively, the State Council formulated and promulgated the "Special Inspector Regulations". The special inspectors represent the state in exercising supervisory power, separating government and businesses, allowing state-owned enterprises to operate independently, and also strengthening government supervision of businesses. Through financial supervision and examination of business results, evaluations were made of corporate leaders' adherence to Party policies, national laws and regulations, and business performance. Based on the results of the inspections, the State Council, through the personnel department, awarded or punished major corporate leaders. The implementation of this system had a strong impetus for the construction of the leadership team of state-owned enterprises and the implementation of various reform measures.

2. Implementing the Reemployment Project for Laid-off Workers in State-owned Enterprises

Securing the basic livelihoods and reemployment of laid-off workers in state-owned enterprises is a crucial part of the success of the reform of state-owned enterprises. "The essence of ruling is to settle the people; the way to settle people is to address their suffering." The Party Central Committee paid close attention to the temporary difficulties faced by some laid-off workers. Jiang Zemin repeatedly stressed that the vast number of workers in state-owned enterprises have made significant contributions to the country's economic construction, reform and opening up, and the development and growth of state-owned enterprises over the past few decades. It's necessary to always care about them and effectively protect their interests.

From May 14 to 17, 1998, the Party Central Committee and the State Council held a meeting in Beijing on livelihood protection and reemployment for laid-off workers, formulating measures for streamlining redundant personnel and implementing reemployment projects. Jiang Zemin pointed out at the meeting that this work is not only a major economic issue, but also a major political issue; it is not only an immediate pressing issue, but also a long-term strategic issue. All levels of the party committee and the government must regard it as a top priority. The meeting stated that the basic living expenses of laid-off workers must be guaranteed. The funds are jointly borne by the government, enterprises, and society, and basic living expenses must be delivered to each laid-off worker on time, without delay, misappropriation, or deduction, otherwise, responsibility will be pursued. The most important thing is to help laid-off workers achieve reemployment. This work is related to the success or failure of the reform of state-owned enterprises, the vital interests of workers, an insurmountable stage in the reform process, and a major and important task.

In June, the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China and the State Council issued a "Notice on Effectively Doing a Good Job in the Basic Life Protection and Reemployment of Laid-off Workers in State-owned Enterprises", pointing out that in the future, to ensure the realization of the reform goals of state-owned enterprises proposed by the Fifteenth National Congress of the Party, and to complete the strategic adjustment of the state-owned economy, it is necessary to take solving the basic life protection and reemployment problems of laid-off workers in state-owned enterprises as the primary task, and strive to achieve a greater number of reemployments each year than the number of newly laid-off workers. By 1998, more than 50% of laid-off workers and new laid-off workers were reemployed. Strive to initially establish a social security system and employment mechanism that meets the requirements of the socialist market economic system in about five years.




Central leaders have also made multiple in-depth visits to the grassroots level to investigate and study the employment and life issues of laid-off workers, and to visit the masses who are living in hardship. According to the central government's deployment, localities have successively established three "safety lines" for laid-off workers: first, the basic living allowance for laid-off workers; second, those who have not found employment after three years can shift to unemployment insurance; and third, those who still have not found employment after two years of unemployment insurance can receive the minimum living guarantee for urban residents according to regulations. At the same time, governments at all levels have expanded employment channels and established re-employment service centers through strengthened vocational training in various forms, guiding workers to change their job selection concepts, and vigorously promoting the re-employment of laid-off workers. From 1998 to 2000, a total of 21 million laid-off workers from state-owned enterprises nationwide entered the re-employment service centers, among which 13 million people were re-employed, providing a strong guarantee for the smooth progress of state-owned enterprise reform.

3. Strengthening the Party's Leadership over Large State-owned Enterprises

In order to strengthen the leadership of large and medium-sized state-owned enterprises, with the approval of the CPC Central Committee, the Central Large Enterprises Work Committee was established on July 9, 1998, with Wu Bangguo, a member of the Politburo of the Chinese Communist Party and Vice Premier of the State Council, serving as the secretary. Its responsibilities include: managing the party leadership positions in large state-owned enterprises and state-holding companies supervised by the State Council, in order to promote the implementation of the party's line, principles, policies, and the related spirit of the Party Central Committee and the State Council in large state-owned enterprises; researching and exploring ways to reform and strengthen the construction of leading groups of party leadership in large state-owned enterprises according to the requirements of the socialist market economy system and the establishment of modern enterprise systems; and completing other tasks assigned by the Central Committee. The State Council also stipulates that government agencies are strictly prohibited from providing guarantees for corporate economic activities. The implementation of these supporting measures has accelerated the pace of state-owned enterprise reform.

During this period, the Party Central Committee strengthened research on state-owned enterprises, with central leaders making multiple in-depth front-line guidance for reforms. From April to August 1999, Jiang Zemin successively visited Chengdu, Wuhan, Xi'an, Qingdao, Dalian and other places, presiding over a series of symposiums and expressing important opinions on the reform and development of state-owned enterprises. He pointed out that fully promoting the reform and development of state-owned enterprises is a barrier that cannot be bypassed. Defeating this difficult problem is not only related to the success or failure of the state-owned enterprise reform, but also to the success or failure of the overall economic system reform. We must seize the opportunity, make up our minds, make great efforts, solve the deep-seated contradictions and problems faced by state-owned enterprises, and further enhance the vitality of state-owned enterprises. The state should develop a group of large enterprises and enterprise groups in important industries and key areas that are related to the national economy's lifeline, making them the main force of the national economy. Small and medium state-owned enterprises should adopt various forms, be liberalized for invigoration, encourage them to adopt more flexible management methods, and accelerate their development. The modern enterprise system is the basic system of enterprises under the conditions of a socialist market economy. Without the establishment of effective mechanisms in management and market operations in enterprises, it is impossible to establish a socialist market economic system in the end, and the organic integration of public ownership and the market economy can hardly be realized. In the reform of state-owned enterprises, we must pay attention to strengthening party leadership. These important speeches further clarified the direction for tackling hardships in the reform of state-owned enterprises.

In September 1999, the Fourth Plenary Session of the 15th Central Committee of the Party further discussed the reform and development of state-owned enterprises and passed the "Decision of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China on Several Major Issues Concerning the Reform and Development of State-owned Enterprises" (referred to as the "Decision"), setting the goal for the reform and development of state-owned enterprises by 2010.



"The Decision" points out: The reform of state-owned enterprises is a broad and profound change. In order to enhance the economic strength, defense capability and national cohesion of the state, it is necessary to continuously promote the development of state-owned economy and overall enhance the vitality of state-owned enterprises and the control of state-owned economy. This is of great significance for establishing a socialist market economic system, promoting sustained and rapid economic health, improving people's living standards, maintaining a stable and united political situation, and consolidating the socialist system. Advancing the reform and development of state-owned enterprises, first of all, we must make the utmost effort to achieve the goals set out in the 15th National Congress and the first plenary session of the 15th Central Committee. By 2010, we should adapt to fundamental changes in the economic system and economic growth model and expand the requirements for opening up. We must basically complete the strategic adjustment and reorganization of state-owned enterprises, forming a relatively rational layout and structure of the state-owned economy, establishing a relatively perfect modern enterprise system, significantly improving economic efficiency, and significantly strengthening the ability of scientific and technological development, market competition, and risk resistance, so that the state-owned economy plays a better leading role in the national economy. "The Decision" also puts forward a series of major policy measures, mainly including: strategically adjusting the layout of the state-owned economy, combining the optimization and upgrading of industry structure and ownership adjustment, insisting on progress and retreat, and having something to do and not to do; distinguishing different situations, continuing to carry out strategic reorganization of state-owned enterprises; focusing on separating the government from enterprises, exploring effective forms of state-owned asset management, carrying out standardized corporate reforms, transforming operating mechanisms, etc., establishing and perfecting the modern enterprise system; gradually solving the problems of high debt ratio in state-owned enterprises, insufficient capital, heavy social burdens, etc. We should do a good job in reducing staff and increasing efficiency, reemployment and social security work; accelerating technological progress and industrial upgrading; strengthening the Party's leadership over the reform and development work of state-owned enterprises; and so on.
The above goals and policy measures make the overall thinking of the reform of state-owned enterprises clearer and the policy is more explicit. It is not only guiding for the goal of completing the reform and getting out of trouble in three years, but also for the development of state-owned enterprises crossing the century.
Under the guidance of the spirit of the Fourth Plenary Session of the 15th Central Committee, state-owned enterprises continue to push forward deep-level reforms from multiple levels. From 1998 to 2000, more than 2,700 modern enterprise system pilot enterprises determined by the central government and selected from various regions, most of them have carried out corporate and shareholding reforms; among the 520 state-owned and state-controlled enterprises on the national key enterprises list, 430 have carried out corporate reforms, accounting for 83.7%. The state-owned and state-controlled industries realized a substantial increase in profits. By the end of 2000, more than 70% of the 6,599 state-owned and state-controlled large and medium-sized enterprises that had lost money in 1997 had decreased; the state-owned and state-controlled industries realized profits of 239.2 billion yuan, which was 1.97 times that of 80.6 billion yuan in 1997; state-owned small enterprises also realized profits of 4.81 billion yuan, ending the continuous net loss for six years. Many state-owned enterprises that have been in trouble for a long time have walked out of the low ebb, and their operating conditions have significantly improved, creating a new situation for the reform and development of state-owned enterprises, and basically achieving the three-year goal of the reform and relief of state-owned large and medium-sized enterprises set by the 15th National Congress. These are the results of the correct decisions taken by the Party Central Committee at a critical stage of reform and development, and the tremendous contributions made by the Chinese working class and the Party in the same heart and morality for the country's economic construction and reform.
Third, persist in "one country, two systems" and carry forward the cause of reunifying the motherland 
Insisting on the "one country, two systems" policy and advancing the unification of the motherland has been opened in the 1980s and has achieved good results. In the 1990s, this cause continued to achieve major progress.
1. The proposal of Eight Points on developing cross-Strait relations 
After the 1980s, with the proposal of the "one country, two systems" policy by the Chinese Communist Party and the historic major changes in the mainland, the Kuomintang authorities in Taiwan were forced to adjust their mainland policy. In 1987, Chiang Ching-Kuo announced the lifting of martial law in Taiwan from July 15 and later opened up for Taiwanese compatriots to visit their relatives on the mainland. Since then, the long-standing separation between the cross-Strait compatriots has finally been broken.



Large numbers of Taiwan compatriots have come to the mainland of the motherland for family visits, tourism, and business, and relations between the two sides of the strait in terms of economics and trade have expanded rapidly. 
The Communist Party of China attaches great importance to this new change in relations across the Taiwan Strait and actively promotes further development of cross-strait relations. In December 1990, the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China held a national conference on Taiwan work, stating that the urgent task for Taiwan work was to strengthen ties across the strait, further expand personnel and various exchanges, especially to strengthen economic and trade exchanges, and to achieve "three direct links" in both directions. On March 5, 1994, the sixth meeting of the Standing Committee of the Eighth National People's Congress passed the "Law of the People's Republic of China on the Protection of Investments by Taiwan Compatriots", which incorporated the protection of Taiwan business investments into the legal track, further promoting the development of cross-strait economic relations. In April 1994, the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China and the State Council specifically held a conference on Taiwan economic work, summed up the successful experience of cross-strait economic relations development, proposed the principle of "equal priority, appropriate relaxation" in fields and projects of Taiwan business investment. It called for high emphasis on Taiwan economic work by all regions and departments, adopted practical measures to protect the legitimate rights and interests of Taiwan businesses in the motherland, and improved the investment environment for Taiwan businesses in the motherland. 

To promote substantive progress in cross-strait relations and establish channels of communication across the strait, the mainland established the Association for Relations Across the Taiwan Straits on December 16, 1991. This is a civil association aimed at promoting exchanges across the strait, developing cross-strait relations, and realizing the peaceful reunification of the motherland. In March 1992, the Association for Relations Across the Taiwan Straits began business discussions with the Taiwan Strait Exchange Foundation on the Taiwan side. To clarify adherence to the principle of one China, Tang Shubei, the executive vice president of the Association for Relations Across the Taiwan Straits, further elaborated on the attitude towards the principle of one China in cross-strait business talks after the first working talk in March 1992. On this, the Taiwan side had to express the stance of "adherence to the principle of one China" and recognize the fact that Taiwan is part of Chinese territory. After several consultations, both sides reached the "1992 Consensus" that "both sides of the strait insist on the principle of one China" by expressing it verbally.

On August 4, 1992, Wang Daohan, the president of the Association for Relations Across the Taiwan Straits, wrote to Koo Chen-fu, the chairman of the Taiwan Strait Exchange Foundation, hoping to hold talks on the economic development of the two sides of the strait and affairs of the two associations. On the 22nd, the Taiwan Strait Exchange Foundation replied that it accepted the invitation. After several preparatory consultations, Wang Daohan, the president of the Association for Relations Across the Taiwan Straits, and Koo Chen-fu, the chairman of the Taiwan Strait Exchange Foundation, held their first talk in Singapore from April 27 to 28, 1993. Although this talk was of a civil, economic, business, and functional nature, its content was broad, its significance great, and it caught the attention of people both at home and abroad. The two sides reached the "Wang-Koo Talks Joint Agreement", the "Agreement on Contacts and Talks between the Two Associations", etc. Thereafter, to implement various agreements reached in the "Wang-Koo Talks", from August 1993 to January 1995, the two associations held six deputy-secretary-level working talks in Beijing, Taipei, and Nanjing. Tang Shubei, the executive vice president of the Association for Relations Across the Taiwan Straits, also went to Taiwan to discuss with Jiao Renhe, vice chairman and secretary-general of the Taiwan Strait Exchange Foundation, and reached specific consensus on three items: handling disputes over fishing matters in the waters between the two sides of the strait, negotiating the repatriation of hijackers between the two sides, and the repatriation and related issues of persons who violate relevant regulations by entering the territory of the other side. Both sides believe that strengthening multi-level communication between the two associations is conducive to further enhancing understanding, eliminating misunderstandings, reducing differences, and building mutual trust.



To more clearly explain the policy of the Chinese government on the Taiwan issue both domestically and overseas, Jiang Zemin, representing the Communist Party of China and the Chinese government, delivered an important speech entitled "Continuing the Struggle for the Completion of the Great Cause of the Motherland's Reunification" on January 30, 1995. He put forward eight propositions for promoting cross-strait relations and the peaceful reunification of the motherland at the current stage: (1) Adhering to the one-China principle is the foundation and prerequisite for achieving peaceful reunification; (2) Peaceful reunification negotiations across the strait can be conducted in stages; (3) Strive to achieve peaceful reunification, but do not promise to refrain from using force; (4) Facing the 21st century, vigorously develop cross-strait economic exchanges and cooperation; (5) Compatriots on both sides of the strait should jointly inherit and carry forward the excellent traditions of Chinese culture; (6) Further pinning hope on Taiwan compatriots; (7) Welcome parties and people from all walks of life in Taiwan to exchange views on cross-strait relations and peaceful reunification with us; (8) Leaders of both sides visit each other in appropriate capacities.
Jiang Zemin's eight propositions further advanced the nine principles proposed by Ye Jianying in 1981, making Deng Xiaoping's concept of "peaceful reunification, one country, two systems" more concrete in terms of premise, principle, method, and steps. These eight propositions not only reflect the consistency and continuity of the Communist Party of China and the Chinese government towards Taiwan policy, but also reflect their determination and sincerity to develop cross-strait relations and achieve peaceful reunification of the motherland. They are the programmatic documents for resolving the Taiwan issue in the new era, with strong practical significance and profound historical significance.
2. Successfully Resolving the Issue of Hong Kong and Macao's Return to the Motherland
Just as cross-strait relations were developing smoothly, Hong Kong and Macao's return was counting down. The reason why relations between Taiwan, Hong Kong, Macao, and the Mainland can continue to develop is multifaceted, but the most fundamental one must be attributed to the "one country, two systems" policy. Although the concept of "one country, two systems" was initially proposed mainly to resolve the Taiwan issue, it was first successfully applied to resolve the issues of Hong Kong and Macao.
The Hong Kong issue is a historical legacy of British colonialists' aggression against China. The Hong Kong area includes Hong Kong Island, Kowloon, and the New Territories, which have been Chinese territory since ancient times. After the Opium War in 1840, Britain forced the Qing government to sign the unequal treaties of the Treaty of Nanking, Treaty of Beijing, and Convention for the Extension of Hong Kong Territory, and took over Hong Kong, Kowloon, and the New Territories, resulting in Hong Kong falling under British colonial rule. All Chinese governments after the 1911 Revolution did not recognize these unequal treaties, and they negotiated with Britain many times to recover Hong Kong. On the eve of the founding of New China, due to the special domestic and international environment, the Chinese Communist Party and Mao Zedong decided "not to touch Hong Kong for the time being". After the founding of the People's Republic of China in 1949, the Chinese government adopted the policy of "taking a long-term view and making full use of" Hong Kong, did not recognize these unequal treaties imposed by imperialism on China, but decided to temporarily maintain the status quo due to historical reasons, and to solve the issue peacefully through negotiations when the time is right. 
Once the reform and opening up a new era began, with the end of Hong Kong’s “lease” period afoot, the Communist Party of China began to consider using the “one country, two systems” policy to reclaim the sovereignty of Hong Kong. The two sides of China and the UK have started since October 1982, after three stages of tough negotiations for 22 rounds, the heads of state of the two countries eventually officially signed the "Sino-British Joint Declaration on the Question of Hong Kong" on December 19, 1984. The declaration announced that the Chinese government decided to resume the exercise of sovereignty over Hong Kong on July 1, 1997, and the British government would return Hong Kong to China on the same day. According to the provisions of the Joint Declaration, the transfer of power from the UK to China took place in Hong Kong from midnight on June 30, 1997, to the early morning of July 1st. The smooth return of Hong Kong is the result of the successful practice of the "one country, two systems" concept. It symbolizes that the Chinese people have wiped out the national humiliation of Hong Kong being occupied for a century, and Hong Kong's development has entered a new era.



After the process of Hong Kong's return, the issue of Macau's return was also put on the agenda. 
In 1974, the Portuguese government announced that it would abandon all overseas colonies and recognize that Macau was not a colony, but Chinese territory. In February 1979, China and Portugal established diplomatic relations, and both sides reached an understanding on the issue of Macau. The Portuguese government recognized that Macau was Chinese territory, and both sides agreed to resolve this issue through negotiations between the two governments at an appropriate time. In June 1986, the two governments began to negotiate on the issue of Macau, and on April 13, 1987, the prime ministers of both governments formally signed the Joint Declaration of the Government of the People's Republic of China and the Government of the Portuguese Republic on the Question of Macau in Beijing. It was announced that the Macau region was Chinese territory and that the Government of the People's Republic of China would resume exercising sovereignty over Macau on December 20, 1999. From midnight on December 19, 1999, to the early morning of December 20, a solemn handover ceremony was held in Macau by the government delegations of both countries with the participation of the highest leaders of the state. President Jiang Zemin solemnly declared: The Chinese government resumes exercising sovereignty over Macau.

The successful return of Hong Kong and Macau has ushered in a new era of joint development between the two regions and the mainland. Resolving the issue of the return of Hong Kong and Macau through diplomatic negotiations and the "one country, two systems" approach is a major initiative by Chinese communists on the path of Sinicization of Marxism, and is a significant contribution made by the Chinese people to world peace and development. The successful practices after the return of Hong Kong and Macau have proven that "one country, two systems" is not only the most realistic way to achieve national reunification, but also the most important institutional guarantee for stability, prosperity, and development in the returned regions.

3. Promote the early resolution of Taiwan issue according to the "one country, two systems" principle.
In the late 1980s, the political situation in Taiwan underwent significant changes. With the lifting of martial law and localization of political power, the force of "Taiwan independence" gradually became more active. From the beginning of 1988 to 2000, Lee Teng-hui, through power strategies, suppression of dissidents, and consolidating his position, gradually abandoned the principle of one China and pursued a divisive policy of manufacturing "two Chinas." After 1993, the Taiwan authorities intensified their actions such as seeking "participation in the United Nations", carrying out so-called "holiday diplomacy", "dollar diplomacy", etc., deliberately creating "two Chinas", "one China, one Taiwan" in the international community. Especially in June 1995, with the permission of the United States, Lee Teng-hui visited the US and delivered a political speech at Cornell University, repeatedly emphasizing "Republic of China on Taiwan", and intensifying his international activities of creating "two Chinas". Meanwhile, Taiwan conducted continuous military exercises against mainland China, creating a tense atmosphere across the strait.

In face of the increasingly intensified secessionist activities by the Taiwan authorities, the Chinese government and the Chinese people have always maintained a high degree of vigilance, and have resolutely fought against secession and "Taiwan independence" from political, military, diplomatic, and public opinion perspectives. The anti-secession, anti-"Taiwan independence" struggle carried out by the Chinese people has powerfully hit the secessionist forces advocating "Taiwan independence" in Taiwan, helped the international community further understand the harmfulness of "Taiwan independence", and alerted the majority of Taiwan compatriots that "Taiwan independence" is a dead-end. The US government also made a commitment to continue the "one China" policy and stated that it does not support Taiwan independence.



Under pressure from all sides, the leader of Taiwan had to state: there is currently no need or necessity to immediately declare "Taiwanese independence".
Due to Lee Teng-hui's visit to the United States, the second "Wang-Koo talks" could not proceed as planned, and negotiations at all levels between the two associations were forced to halt completely. In order to alleviate and improve cross-strait relations, the Taiwan Work Office of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, the Taiwan Affairs Office of the State Council, and the Straits Exchange Foundation expressed their willingness to resume negotiations under the principle of one China. In September 1997, Jiang Zemin reiterated in his report at the 15th National Congress of the party that he solemnly urged the Taiwan authorities to start political negotiations with us as soon as possible. After several rounds of discussions, from October 14 to 19, 1998, Koo Chen-fu led the Taiwan Strait Exchange Foundation delegation to visit mainland China. Jiang Zemin met with Mr. and Mrs. Koo Chen-fu, Wang Daohan met with Koo twice, and they reached a four-point consensus, thus initiating the political dialogue across the strait and improving the atmosphere of cross-strait relations.
However, just as the knowledgeable individuals in mainland China and Taiwan were actively promoting the development of cross-strait relations, the Taiwan authorities chose to continue the path of destruction and confrontation. On July 9, 1999, Lee Teng-hui blatantly proposed the "two states theory", claiming that cross-strait relations are "state to state, at least special state to state". In the election held in Taiwan in March 2000, the KMT was defeated and DPP leader Chen Shui-bian was elected the new leader of Taiwan. Although he repeatedly claimed the "sincerity" and "goodwill" to restart the two-association dialogue and improve cross-strait relations at the beginning of his tenure, he chose to evade, obfuscate, and refuse the key issue of accepting the one-China principle. After that, he not only denied the existence of the "1992 consensus", deliberately obstructed the resumption of cross-strait negotiations, but also used various means to attempt to implement the "Taiwan independence" program in a gradual manner. On August 3, 2002, Chen Shui-bian made a televised speech to the 29th annual meeting of the "World Federation of Taiwanese Associations" held in Tokyo, Japan, bluntly claiming that "Taiwan is one country on one side of China across the strait", promoting the use of "referendum" to decide "Taiwan's future, fate, and current status", revealing his stubborn insistence on the "Taiwan independence" stance.
Whether it is the "two states theory" or the "one country on one side theory", both disregard the welfare of the Taiwanese people and lead Taiwan towards disaster. As soon as these remarks were made, they were firmly opposed by all the Chinese people, including Taiwanese compatriots. People from all over the country and overseas Chinese living abroad have strongly condemned the Taiwan authorities' separatist remarks and actions.
Although the Taiwan authorities have been promoting "Taiwanese independence" and separation activities, which have limited and obstructed the further development of cross-strait relations, various exchanges and cooperation between the two sides of the strait are irresistible. With the increase in exchanges between the people across the strait, Taiwanese compatriots have learned more about the situation in mainland China, and more and more people realize that Taiwan's development and prospects cannot be separated from mainland China. Economic and trade exchanges are the most active and vibrant factors in cross-strait relations. As of October 2002, Taiwanese businessmen have made more than 55,000 investments in mainland China, with a contracted Taiwanese capital of more than 60 billion US dollars. The total trade value between the two sides of the strait has reached more than 260 billion US dollars.



In this situation, the people of Taiwan urgently demand the realization of direct "Three Links." With mainland China and Taiwan both joining the World Trade Organization, mainland China has established more intimate economic relations with Taiwan, Hong Kong, and Macao. Undoubtedly, this trend will further enhance the common economic interests of people across the strait, promote the common development and prosperity of the strait economies, and become an important force maintaining and promoting cross-strait relations, as well as realizing national unification.

The process by which the Communist Party of China is advancing the cause of national unification clearly states: "Peaceful reunification, one country, two systems" is the basic policy for national unification. It represents the creative development of Marxist strategy thought by Chinese Communists on how to achieve national unity; the efforts of the Communist Party of China to promote peaceful reunification of the motherland represent the common interests and wishes of all Chinese people and compatriots at home and abroad; adhering to these basic policies and realizing full national unification as soon as possible is an unshakable belief of all descendants of China and an irresistible trend of historical development.

Fourth, establish a comprehensive foreign relationship pattern for the new century. Maintaining and developing independent and peaceful diplomatic thoughts is a new contribution the Chinese Communists have made to Marx's diplomatic thoughts in the 20th century. This idea has further enhanced the ability of the Chinese Communist Party to handle international affairs in its foreign dealings. The construction of an all-round and multi-level diplomatic relationship structure, the rapid development of various partnerships, and frequent diplomatic activities at the top level - all these are manifestations of the enhanced ability of the Communist Party of China to handle international affairs. All of these reflect a "newer" sense in which the Chinese Communist Party advances and develops Marxism's diplomatic thinking.

From a practical perspective, since the mid-1990s, Chinese diplomacy has mainly faced three tasks: first, responding to the various changes in international relations brought about by the trend toward multipolarity, and establishing an all-rounded, multi-tiered foreign relationship pattern for the 21st century; second, opposing all forms of hegemonism and power politics, maintaining world peace, and promoting a more just and equitable new international political and economic order, in order to safeguard the rights and interests of countries around the world, especially those of the majority of developing countries; third, dealing with the impact on China brought on by the trend of economic globalization and rapid development of high technology.

Under the leadership of the Party Central Committee with Jiang Zemin at the core, our country fully implemented the established basic foreign policies and enriched and developed their ideological connotations according to changes in the international situation and new practice. The independent feature of Chinese foreign policy is even more prominent. Its outstanding performances are: first, everything starts from national interests, always puts national sovereignty and security in the first place, and will not allow any country to interfere in our country's internal affairs. Second, adhering to our specific national conditions, we determine independently the areas and speed of opening up - persevering in expanding opening up, fully utilizing the various beneficial conditions and opportunities brought by economic globalization, while also maintaining sober understanding of potential risks, strengthening prevention, and realistically maintaining national economic security. Third, firmly upholding real non-alignment. China not only doesn't ally with any country, it also doesn't lead the flag in the world socialist movement and doesn't take the lead among developing countries. Fourth, respecting the diversity of the world and handling international affairs in the spirit of mutual respect and seeking common ground while reserving differences, to promote democratization in international relations.

Chinese diplomacy also shows new characteristics in form. One is that head-of-state diplomacy has played an unprecedented and irreplaceable important role. Chinese leaders have frequently appeared at important international occasions, which has expanded China's international influence and demonstrated an increase in China's international status.



Secondly, in the partnerships and cooperative relationships established between our country and other countries and regional organizations, a multi-level system of regular meetings, consultations, and dialogues has been widely established. This new mechanized operational method not only improves the effectiveness of bilateral and multilateral cooperation, but also helps to stabilize and further develop the relationships among all parties. Thirdly, the Communist Party of China focuses on practical results, exchanges governance experiences extensively with ruling parties and legal opposition parties around the world, and carries out cooperation, making party-to-party relations serve national development strategies and overall diplomacy, providing an important guarantee for the long-term stability and healthy development of national relations. 

At the turn of the century, our country has basically established a comprehensive, multi-level diplomatic relationship pattern. Since the reform and opening up, our country's diplomacy has been developing in this direction. In the second half of the 1990s, this work made considerable progress. When constructing an external relationship pattern for the 21st century, our country considered both relationships with major countries and developed countries, and relationships with neighboring countries and the vast number of developing countries; also paying attention to developing bilateral relations with various countries and actively conducting multilateral diplomatic activities; it attaches importance to relationships between governments of various countries and is keen to develop the relationship between the Communist Party of China and political parties in various countries around the world. Furthermore, it emphasizes conducting various forms of people-to-people diplomacy.

Stabilizing and developing relations with big countries and developed countries is of great significance for our country's socialist modernization, and for maintaining world peace and development. In the mid-1990s, our country's leaders proposed to actively strive to develop a new type of big country relationship mainly characterized by non-alignment, non-confrontation, and non-targeting the third party. Based on this principle, our country has successively established and developed a basic framework for bilateral relations for the 21st century with Russia, the United States, France, the United Kingdom, Japan and Canada, and the European Union.

China and the United States are the largest developing country and the largest developed country in the world, respectively. There have always been some contradictions and differences between China and the United States. Some differences may hardly be eliminated over a considerable length of time. However, regarding major issues concerning world peace and development, the two countries also share common interests. For this reason, although there are ups and downs in China-US relations, the overall trend is continuous development. Chinese leaders have consistently viewed China-US relations with strategic vision and long-term perspectives, insisting on basing the development of bilateral relations on the three China-US joint communiqués, and advocate dealing with differences between the two countries in the spirit of mutual respect, equal consultation, and seeking common ground while reserving differences. In October 1997, President Jiang Zemin made a state visit to the United States, and both sides declared that they would jointly strive to establish a constructive strategic partnership for the 21st century. The maintenance and development of healthy and stable relationships between China and the United States not only aligns with the fundamental interests of the people of both countries, but also contributes to the peace, stability, and development of the Asia-Pacific region and even the whole world.

China and Russia are each other’s largest neighbors. With the disintegration of the Soviet Union in 1991, China and Russia immediately established diplomatic relations, achieving a smooth transition from China-Soviet relations to China-Russia relations. The relationship between the two countries has since entered a new stage of mutual respect and neighborly friendship. In the second half of the 1990s, China-Russia relations made more noticeable progress.



In April 1996, President Yeltsin made a state visit to China. China and Russia signed a "Joint Declaration," announcing their "determination to develop equitable and trustful strategic partnership relations for the 21st century." In April 1997, President Jiang Zemin made a state visit to Russia, where both countries signed the "Joint Declaration on Multipolarization of the World and Establishment of a New International Order," expressing their willingness to strive together for a peaceful, stable, fair and rational new international political and economic order. In July 2001, President Jiang Zemin made a state visit to Russia, wherein the leaders of both nations formally signed the "China-Russia Good-Neighborly Friendship Cooperation Treaty," marking a significant milestone in their relations. China and Russia have become friendly neighbors with broad prospects for exchanges and cooperation in various fields.

Since 1991, relations between China and Western Europe have returned to normalcy, entering a stage of steady development. Frequent visits between Chinese and European leaders have vigorously promoted the development of bilateral relationships. In September 1994, during his visit to France, President Jiang Zemin proposed four principles for the relationship between China and Western Europe, expressing his willingness to develop long-term stable friendly cooperative relations for the 21st century. In 1997 and 1998, China established comprehensive partnership relations with France and the UK respectively. The European Union, as a significant regional organization, has adopted a series of measures conducive to the development of Sino-European relations. In 1998, the first summit between China and the European Union was held in London, and both sides issued a joint declaration, stressing China and the EU's willingness to establish long-term, stable, constructive partnerships for the 21st century. The EU then decided to raise its relations with China to the same level of importance as with the U.S., Japan, and Russia. With mutual efforts, cooperation between China and European countries in various fields all show promising prospects. 

China and Japan are neighbors across a strait. Since the normalization of diplomatic relations in 1972 and the signing of the Treaty of Peace and Friendship in 1978, Sino-Japanese relations have entered a new period of comprehensive progress with advancements made in all areas. In 1998, President Jiang Zemin paid a state visit to Japan, and both sides issued the "China-Japan Joint Declaration", announcing that China and Japan will establish a "friendly cooperation relationship dedicated to peace and development". At the same time, Japan formally acknowledged its aggression towards China, expressed deep reflection and apology, and jointly confirmed with China that a correct understanding and handling of history is an important basis for the further development of Sino-Japanese relations. The development of Sino-Japanese relations has been generally smooth, with continuous progress made in friendly exchanges and win-win cooperation in various fields, bringing important benefits to both countries, and making positive contributions to peace, stability, and development in the region and the world.

Developing friendly relations with neighboring countries, maintaining peace and stability, promoting common development are some of China's important diplomatic goals. At the beginning of the 1990s, China normalized its relations with all its surrounding countries. Since then, China's relations with its neighboring countries have continued to develop.



China has established diplomatic relations with Central Asian countries and established the "Shanghai Five" mechanism, as well as the "Shanghai Cooperation Organization" of six countries, including China, Russia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, and Uzbekistan. It has also participated in the six-party talks with China, North Korea, South Korea, the U.S., Japan, and Russia aimed at establishing a peace mechanism on the Korean Peninsula, making significant contributions to maintaining peace and stability in the Korean peninsula and Northeast Asia.

The relationship between China and ASEAN is noteworthy. In 1996, China became a full dialogue partner of ASEAN. At the end of 1997, both sides issued the "China-ASEAN Summit Joint Declaration", defining the goal of establishing a neighborly and trustful partnership towards the 21st century and guiding principles of the bilateral relations. On disputed issues such as the South China Sea issue, China clearly stated its willingness to resolve relevant disputes through peaceful negotiations in accordance with internationally recognized laws and other principles and legal systems. After the outbreak of the Asian financial crisis, China provided aid to relevant countries through bilateral and multilateral channels, and kept its promise not to devalue the RMB, which was widely praised internationally. Since the 21st century, China's mutual and beneficial cooperation with ASEAN countries in various fields has been continuously expanding, playing an important role in promoting regional peace and stability.

Strengthening and developing friendly and cooperative relations with South Asian countries is an important part of China’s efforts to stabilize its surroundings. In November 1996, President Jiang Zemin paid a state visit to India. During his visit, he proposed a five-point proposition for China and South Asian countries to jointly build long-term and stable neighborly relationships for the future. The two countries decided to establish a constructive partnership for the future based on the Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence. Subsequently, China and Pakistan also announced their joint efforts to build a comprehensive cooperative partnership for the 21st century. In early 2002, as soon as the new Afghan government was established, the Chinese government immediately recognized and supported it. The improvement and development of China's relations with South Asian countries has played a significant role in maintaining peace and stability in this region.

Active multilateral diplomacy is a prominent feature of China's foreign policy at the turn of the century. Since 1971 when China resumed its rightful seat at the United Nations, it has gradually participated in activities in all areas of multilateral diplomacy centered on the United Nations. By the mid-1980s, China had clearly included multilateral diplomacy as a major component of its independent and peaceful foreign policy. In the 1990s, China was increasingly active in the field of multilateral diplomacy, achieving noticeable successes.

Opposing hegemonism and power politics and protecting the interests of developing countries is an important principle followed by China in multilateral diplomatic activities. After the end of the Cold War, in response to the Western countries' interference in the domestic affairs of developing countries under various pretexts, China has always insisted on respecting national sovereignty and independence, non-interference in internal affairs, and principles of equality and mutual benefit, closely cooperating and mutually supporting with the vast number of developing countries, effectively resisting and confronting various bullying actions in international relations.



Since 1990, with the support of third-world countries, China has successfully defeated anti-China proposals put forward by Western countries ten times consecutively at the United Nations Human Rights Council. China supports and actively participates in the various initiatives conducted by organizations like the United Nations to promote dialogue between the North and the South and to boost South-South cooperation. China has established effective collaborative relations with the Group of 77 and participates as an observer in the Non-Aligned Movement.

Establishing a new international political and economic order is a major issue in contemporary international relations. As early as the late 1980s, Deng Xiaoping advocated for the establishment of a new international political and economic order based on the Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence. After the Cold War, this issue became even more prominent. The Chinese government believes that the new international political and economic order should ensure sovereignty equality and non-interference in the internal affairs of all countries, guarantee equal rights to participate in international affairs and equal rights to development, especially protecting the development rights of the majority of developing countries. In March 1999, President Jiang Zemin delivered a speech during his visit to Switzerland, comprehensively explaining China's fundamental position on the establishment of a new international political and economic order.

In the 1990s, an important part of our country's multilateral diplomatic activities was the negotiations to join the World Trade Organization (WTO). Because of historical reasons, for some time after the establishment of New China, it did not participate in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. Since beginning its reform and opening-up, in July 1986, the Party Central Committee decided to restore our country's status as a contracting party to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade to suit the needs of the situation, and immediately established a specialized agency to organize foreign negotiation work. The negotiations of our country "restoring relations" and joining the WTO were always under the leadership of the Party Central Committee. Throughout the 15 years of negotiation, our country always adhered to three principles: that the WTO, as an international organization, is incomplete without the participation of China, the largest developing country; that China can only join as a developing country; that China’s rights and obligations to join the WTO must be balanced. After continuous efforts and difficult negotiations, China finally reached an agreement with the relevant parties. On November 10, 2001, the World Trade Organization’s Fourth Ministerial Conference held in Doha, Qatar’s capital, reviewed and approved China’s decision to join the WTO by consensus. China's admission greatly stepped towards the WTO becoming a truly global trade organization, and it had a significant impact on our country's economic system reform and economic development.

In the 1990s, China initiated and participated in a series of regional multilateral organizations with an open attitude. China clearly expressed its support for developing varied forms of regional dialogue and cooperation on the basis of equal participation, consensus through consultation, seeking common ground while shelving differences, and making gradual progress. It actively promoted the establishment of a multilateral trust mechanism with neighboring countries to maintain regional security and stability and promote regional economic development. In October 2001, the 9th Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) Leaders' Informal Meeting was held in Shanghai. This was the highest-level and largest international conference ever held in China.



The successful holding of this conference has played a positive role in promoting economic recovery and development in the Asia-Pacific region. In the early 21st century, although the international situation has undergone drastic changes, the major trend of development has not changed. The 16th National Congress of the Communist Party of China, held in November 2002, pointed out: Peace and development are still the theme of the current era. Maintaining world peace and promoting common development is the common wish of the people of all countries and an irresistible historical trend. The development of the trend of world multipolarity and economic globalization has brought opportunities and favorable conditions for the world's peace and development. A new world war cannot be launched in the foreseeable future, and it is possible to achieve a peaceable international environment and a good neighboring environment for a long period. China will uphold the principle of maintaining world peace and promoting common development in line with an independent and peaceful foreign policy.

V. Actively promote military reform with Chinese characteristics

The focus of military struggle preparation is laid on winning local wars under high-tech and informational conditions, and strengthening the quality of army building. This is the new military strategic policy established by the party's central committee in the 1990s and into the new century, based on the changes in the trend of world military development. This strategic policy is a further development on the basis of the 1980s, it is more in line with the requirements of the science and technology background and military strategic development of the 1990s. 

1. Establishing a military strategic guideline under high-tech conditions
In the early 1990s, there were two significant changes in world military affairs: one was the end of the Cold War, and the collapse of the Warsaw Pact, one of the two major military groups; the other was the revolutionary development of high technology represented by microelectronics and information science in the military field. The first change makes large-scale wars less likely, and local wars are more probable. The second change has led to an ongoing military revolution, the war model of the pre-industrial era characterized by pouring steel will become a thing of the past, and the arms race characterized by high-technology and information is on rise. Under this trend, countries around the world are accelerating military reforms in an effort to establish a compact armed force that is of high quality, sufficient, and fitted.

Faced with the new situation, the new Central Military Commission, with Jiang Zemin at its core, made another major adjustment to China's national defense strategic policy in a timely manner. The expanded Military Commission meeting held at the beginning of 1993 decided to base our army's strategic policy on winning local wars under modern technology, especially high-tech conditions, accelerate the qualitative construction of the People's Liberation Army, and improve its emergency combat readiness. To implement the new strategic policy, the Central Military Commission also put forward two "fundamental changes" centered on the concept of "strengthening the military through technology", that is, transforming from dealing with local wars under general conditions to winning local wars under modern technology, especially high-tech conditions; in terms of military construction, transforming from a quantity-scale model to a quality-effectiveness model, and from a labor-intensive model to a technology-intensive model. This is the second adjustment of the national defense strategic policy made by our army after entering the 1990s.



High-tech requires high investment as a strong backing, while national construction also requires the military to "endure" and "tighten its belt for a few years". Faced with this contradiction, our country's defense research and equipment have for a long period of time taken a path of concentrating limited financial and physical resources to make breakthroughs in key areas, to ensure that we have the "ability to fight back" against any strong enemy once something happens. But the cost of doing this is that the pace of army equipment development slows down again, and the gap between our equipment level and that of developed countries in the world further widens.

After Jiang Zemin took office as Chairman of the Military Commission, the direct issue he faced was how to build our military to higher standards, to accelerate the pace of military construction, and to adjust military strategic guidelines in response to new situations and tasks.

In December 1990, not long after Jiang Zemin took office as Chairman of the Central Military Commission, he put forward the overall requirements for army construction under the new situation at an important military work conference held by the General Staff Department, namely: "Politically qualified, militarily tough, strictly disciplined, strongly supported, and good in style.". These five sentences constitute the fundamental direction of military construction in the new period and also cover the basic content of army construction. This is an inheritance and development of Deng Xiaoping's overall guideline and task of building a strong modern and regular revolutionary army proposed in 1981.

After the overall requirements for army construction were formulated, a major topic to be solved was to put forward new military strategic guidelines under the new situation. On this issue, Jiang Zemin proposed not long after taking office as chairman of the Military Commission: The ultimate goal of military strategy is governance. A country, a nation, to survive and develop, to stand firm in fierce international competition, cannot be without the correct military strategic guidelines.

So, in which direction should the new military strategic guidelines be adjusted? This was the direct problem faced by the new military commission. On this issue, on November 9, 1992, Jiang Zemin clearly stated at a military work conference that the international situation is developing rapidly, and we must closely observe and grasp the development and changes of the situation and determine our military strategic guidelines correctly.

Based on Jiang Zemin's idea, the Military Commission held a symposium on military strategic issues in December of the same year. After full consideration and discussion, Vice Chairman of the Military Commission, General Zhang Zhen, made a preliminary summary of the new military strategic guidelines in his concluding remarks at the symposium: We should base ourselves on being able to win a local war under high-tech conditions. After this forum, the General Staff organized multiple investigations in accordance with the intent of the Military Commission, and the Standing Committee of the Military Commission also went through multiple discussions, finally reaching a consensus.

In early 1993, the enlarged meeting of the Central Military Commission was held, at which Jiang Zemin, on behalf of the Central Military Commission, formally proposed the military strategic guidelines for our army under the new situation, that is, "to base the focus of military struggle preparation on winning a local war under modern technology, especially high-tech conditions.



"
2. Promoting military reform under the new situation with "Winning" and "No Degeneration" as the direction
Under the guidance of the overall requirements for military construction and the general policy of military strategy in the 1990s, the Central Military Commission led the whole army to carry out continuous and in-depth reforms in all aspects of army and national defense construction, with "Winning", "No Degeneration" as the direction, and "Quality military building" and "Science and technology strengthen the army" as the goals.

(1) Further strengthen the ideological and political construction of the army. The most important part of implementing the overall requirements for army building in the new period is to persist in the party's absolute leadership over the army, and put ideological and political work in the first place of all the work of the whole army.
After the 14th National Congress of the Party, the first decision made by the Central Military Commission was to reaffirm the promotion of the tradition of the old Red Army and adhere to the principle of the party commanding the gun. The education of insisting on the party's absolute leadership over the army was widely and deeply carried out throughout the army, which strengthened the consciousness and determination of the majority of officers and soldiers to obey the party's absolute leadership and adhere to the party's basic line.
After the Fifteenth National Congress of the Party, in accordance with the unified deployment of the Party Central Committee, the whole army carried out phase-by-phase study and education activities mainly on "learning, politics, and integrity" from top to bottom, and extensively carried out education activities on learning and practicing the "Three Represents" important thoughts. The Military Commission and the General Political Department have formulated a series of resolutions and regulations aimed at the "Opinions of the General Political Department on Strengthening the Education Management of Middle and High-Level Cadres in the Army", "Opinions on Implementing the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China's "Decision on Strengthening and Improving the Party's Style of Work", "Decisions on Several Issues Concerning the Construction of Political Thought in the Army under the Conditions of Reform, Opening up and the Development of the Socialist Market Economy", etc. The ideological and political work of the whole army revolves around ensuring the party's real mastery of the troops in thought and politics, continuously strengthening the consciousness and determination to listen to the party and follow the party, carrying out in-depth theoretical arming and patriotic dedication education, instilling a revolutionary outlook on life, respecting and loving the soldiers, and hard work education. The Outline of Grassroots Construction of the Army is fully implemented, and efforts are made to lay a solid foundation for troop construction.
From 1992 to 2001, the whole army held nearly 10,000 theory study classes of various types, and 85% of the cadres above the regiment level had been trained. The enthusiasm of the grassroots officers and soldiers was greatly enhanced in the competition and excellence activities, with 60,000 advanced companies and 3.6 million excellent soldiers emerging in the "Striving for Advanced Company and Excellent Soldier" activity. The strong ideological and political work guarantees the coordinated development and overall progress of the military construction.

(2) Reform the command structure of the Chinese People's Liberation Army. The military reform in the 1990s was multifaceted, marked by the establishment of the General Equipment Department, and all reforms were fully advanced. These reforms include the reform of our army's command structure marked by the establishment of the General Equipment Department; the reform of the education and training system aimed at "winning"; and the reform of our army's logistical support system marked by the joint logistics of the three services.



On April 5, 1998, the General Armament Department of the People's Liberation Army of China was officially established. This was a significant reform of our military command structure, changing from a tripartite structure to a four-department system. The establishment of the "General Armorment" signifies that under the guidance of new military strategic guidelines, the People's Liberation Army will place more emphasis on the research and improvement of weaponry than ever before. Weapons and equipment provide the material foundation for "victory", and the establishment of the "General Equipment" department is of great significance for strengthening the leadership of weapons and equipment research and production, unified management, and overall planning.

In order to resolve the contradiction between the actual needs of the military and the overall situation of national economic construction, Jiang Zemin, the chairman of the military commission, proposed a very incisive idea: to highlight the key points, to have something to do, something not to do, to rush and not to rush, and to accelerate the creation of several "killer moves" that frighten our enemies. Guided by this concept, after ten years of effort, our military has upgraded its main battle tanks, naval vessels, and combat aircraft; developed unique features in certain missiles and stealth countermeasures technology; and achieved notable achievements in the field of aerospace.

(3) Improvement of military education and training system and further reduction of troop numbers. The fundamental determinant of war's outcomes is people, and the quality of people is of paramount importance to the win or lose of modern wars, especially in high-tech localized wars. Since the 1990s, the entire army has implemented several powerful reforms to the military talent education and training system.

In order to cultivate important military talent, the Central Military Commission has made significant adjustments to the military academy system of the entire army. To meet the needs of winning local wars under high-tech conditions and cultivate talented personnel for a strong army of science and technology, five comprehensive universities have been newly established: the University of Defense Science and Technology, the Information Engineering College, the University of Science and Technology, the Naval Engineering University, and the Air Force Engineering University. The cultivation of military talents has also stepped out of the single-path model of the past, gradually forging a dual-path that includes self-training and reliance on national education. More than fifty higher education institutions, including Peking University and Tsinghua University, have undertaken the task of training officers for the military, sending large numbers of outstanding talents to the military each year.

According to statistics from 2002, there are more than 30,000 officers with doctoral or master's degrees in the entire army. In combat units, the percentages of leaders at the military, division, and regiment levels with at least a college education level are 88%, 90%, and 75% respectively, and the proportion of military officers with a college degree or above in the entire military is 71.8%.

Another important measure to build a quality military and a technology-strong military is to reduce the number of troops, taking the path of a lean military with Chinese characteristics. In September 1997, at the 15th National Congress of the Communist Party of China, Jiang Zemin announced: On the basis of reducing the number of troops by 1 million in the 1980s, China will further reduce the number of troops by 500,000 in the next three years. This major strategic decision is made according to the new changes in the international situation and the internal law of military construction.



The People's Liberation Army of China still has a total force of over 3 million (including civilian personnel) despite the drastic reduction of a million in force since 1985. This number is obviously still on the high side, but large-scale disarmament is restricted by various factors within and outside the military, and it is impossible to accomplish it in one go. It can only be done in a planned and phased manner. The reduction of 500,000 is a firm and prudent arrangement to reduce the number of troops and improve their quality. The secondary effects it brings will not merely be a reduction in numbers. Along with deepening reforms, the structure and quality of our army will climb to a new level, and overall combat effectiveness will inevitably be strengthened. By 2002, the total staff of the People's Liberation Army (including regular and reserve forces) remained within 2.5 million.
(4) All commercial activities of the military and armed police forces are cancelled. Since the reform and opening up, the army has been obedient to the overall situation of the country with economic construction at the centre, and has been living a tight life. To solve economic difficulties, the army and the armed police forces have widely carried out commercial and industrial production activities for a period. The majority of the funds obtained were used to improve the living, working, and training conditions of the troops. However, as time went on, some negative impacts gradually emerged, mainly distracting the attention of leaders at all levels and nurturing unhealthy tendencies.
Soon after Jiang Zemin assumed the chairmanship of the Military Commission, he pointed out that the army should eat the "Imperial Grain". As a result, the Military Commission took measures to gradually shrink and clean up the army's production and operation activities, and finally, according to its unified deployment, stopped all commercial activities in July 1998. Within the stipulated period, the military and armed police forces handed over or revoked thousands of commercial enterprises and trade companies. The troops fully implemented the orders of the Military Commission, reflecting the military's consistent good style of subordination to the overall situation and obedience to the ban.
After the military and armed police forces ceased all commercial activities, to ensure the living conditions of the troops, especially for the grassroots soldiers to serve the country willingly and to create good conditions for their devotion to national defence, the state allocated a huge amount of special funds for this purpose. The headquarters of the People's Liberation Army adhered to the use of funds tilted towards combat troops, border troops and grassroots units since the 90s of the 20th century, and invested more than 1.6 billion yuan, implementing supporting rectification projects for the living facilities of troops stationed in remote and difficult border areas. Many border posts and troops on plateaus and islands have moved into standard camps, ate fresh vegetables, had hot showers, and watched television. The non-operating agricultural sideline production of the troops has not been reduced, but strengthened. In implementing the "Vegetable Basket" project, over half of the regiments in the entire army achieved a self-sufficiency rate of 70% for major side dishes, and a considerable number of units basically achieved self-sufficiency for meat and vegetables. To improve the cultural life of grassroots soldiers, the headquarters also allocated special funds to greatly improve grassroots cultural facilities and promote the development of grassroots cultural activities.
(5) Strengthen the legal governance of the army.



In view of the new situations and problems brought about by the social environment of developing a socialist market economy to the construction of the armed forces, the military commission particularly emphasized the importance of governing the army according to law during the reforms in the 1990s. In addition to revising the traditional three major orders (namely, the internal affairs orders, disciplinary orders, and combat orders), the National People's Congress, the State Council, and the Central Military Commission have also formulated and promulgated a series of laws, regulations, and orders. These include specialized laws related to the army and national defense construction such as the National Defense Law, the Conscription Law, the Active Duty Officers Law, the Military Facilities Protection Law, and more; over a thousand military regulations such as the Conscription Work Regulations, the National Defense Traffic Regulations, the Command Headquarters Regulations, the Political Department Work Regulations, the Logistics Regulations, and Weapons Equipment Management Regulations were established. Over 2000 corresponding rules have been formulated by the four headquarters, various military services and major military regions.

After continuously completing the three five-year legal education plans, the entire army conducted the fourth five-year legal education in 2001. In the legal education, with a focus on military regulations, the entire army carried out extensive learning about legal knowledge. Many grassroots units of the troops also conducted legal consultation activities during the legal education, assisting the vast majority of officers and soldiers in resolving legal issues encountered in daily life, learning to use legal means to protect the lawful rights and interests of military personnel and their families, and enhancing their understanding of the legal system. At the turn of the century, the army and the construction of national defense basically could rely on laws and regulations to operate. Incorporating army construction into a track of legalization greatly ensured and promoted the modernization and standardization construction of the army.

In addition to the aforementioned reforms, the People's Liberation Army has also carried out a series of reforms including conscription system, officer service system, army housing system, military insurance system, and operational command system. Through these reforms, the overall military and political quality of the troops has been greatly improved.

3. Following the path of elite soldiers with Chinese characteristics under informatization conditions

Entering the 21st century, a series of new changes occurred in both international and domestic environments, and informatization has increasingly become prominent in the high-tech field, which is a significant feature of these changes. In response to this change, the Central Military Commission timely adjusted its military strategic principles, transferring from winning modern wars, especially high-tech local wars, to winning local wars under the conditions of informatization. At the same time, it proposed the construction and development goals of the military, referred to as "three offers, one role". This has further realized the advancement of the military strategic thinking of the Communist Party of China, formed the latest achievement of Marxist military thinking, and thus promoted this thinking to a new height in the new century and new stage.

Since the dramatic changes in Eastern Europe in the 1990s, the US's foreign policy has been attempting to dominate the world alone, which has sharply conflicted with efforts from many countries including China to multipolarize the world. For a period of time, due to the lack of effective constraints on the US in the world, the US acted almost recklessly worldwide. Statistics show that during this period, the number of times the US used force to intervene in other countries' internal affairs was twice as high as during the Cold War. The enhancement of its soft power also greatly exceeded the level of US-Soviet contention.



In recent years, with the rapid development of China, the United States has increasingly strengthened its encirclement and suppression of us in various respects. There exist contacts, cooperation, struggles, and compromises between China and the U.S. The rivalry between both parties extends to many aspects including politics, economy, military, and diplomacy.
Since the reform and opening-up, the high-speed growth of China's economy has not only brought tremendous progress to our country but also made significant contributions to the global economy, a consensus shared by the majority of countries today. However, not everyone is pleased by this, some hostile forces are always bent on obstructing China's development, laying out obstacles covertly and overtly. Concurrently, as the trend of economic globalization accelerates, the integration of various national economies is becoming increasingly quick, and mutual involvements in the business realm have become a global trend. With today's booming economy and technology, the extension of national interests is also actively expanding. In the agricultural age, the frontier of national interest was limited to the territory, the industrial age extended it to the ocean, it spread to the sky after World War II, and in the era of high technology, it has spread to space. In today's information era, it reaches even further into the electromagnetic fields. The expansion of the frontier of national interests demands the military's role to pavé along as well, providing a strong security guarantee and strategic support for the maximization of national interests.

The rapid changes in international and military situations have quickly drawn the attention of our military. As mentioned in an article in the "People's Liberation Army Daily" on January 1, 2002, "In the new year, we will continue to focus on joint operations in the information age, focusing on the basic theory of joint operations, especially foreign militaries' theory and practice of joint operations, strive to reflect the general rules of joint operations, and in combination with the actual situation of our military, propose countermeasures for joint operations, talent cultivation, joint operations training, etc., enhance the joint operations capability of our military". From the historical mission of national unity, entering the new century, the situation of national unity in our country is still not optimistic. The Taiwan independence forces are rampant on the island, continuously provoking the bottom line of my peaceful reunification. While making the utmost efforts to achieve peaceful reunification of the motherland, we also have to be ready for military struggle at any time.

These new era characteristics are posing higher demands on the functions of our military. At the expanded meeting of the Central Military Commission on September 20, 2004, the retired Chairman of the Military Commission Jiang Zemin pointed out: "We must have a broad perspective, foresight, and continuously innovate and actively cope with the severe challenges of the new military reforms worldwide. With the urgency of 'time waits for no one', we will promote the military reform with Chinese characteristics, to complete the dual historical tasks of mechanization and informatization construction, and unswervingly achieve the strategic goal of building an informatized military and winning informatized wars."

Hu Jintao, who had just taken over as chairman of the Military Commission at the same meeting, also asked the army to "continually improve the abilities of strengthening ideological and political construction in the troops, grasping the correct direction of troop building, leading military struggle preparations, leading troops to complete combat tasks under informatization conditions, pushing forward military reform with Chinese characteristics, promoting mechanized and informatized troop construction, and strictly governing the army and strengthening the normalization of troop construction".

The white paper on national defense released by China in 2004 officially announced: "The People's Liberation Army is based on winning local wars under conditions of informatization, emphasizing the strengthening of weapons and equipment construction, joint operations capacity building, and battlefield construction. Adhere to the idea of people's war, develop the strategy and tactics of people's war..."



Adapting to the requirements of integrated joint warfare, we must establish a modern warfare system that can fully exert the overall effectiveness of armed forces and national war potential." At this point, our army began the third transformation of military strategy in the new era, that is, from winning a localized war under the conditions of modern technology, especially high technology, to winning a localized war under informationized conditions. 
According to the requirements of this new military strategy, Chairman Hu Jintao, representing the Central Military Commission, promptly adjusted the historical mission of our army. On March 13, 2005, Chairman Hu Jintao delivered an important speech at the plenary meeting of the delegation of the People's Liberation Army at the Third Session of the Tenth National People's Congress, requiring the army to "provide an important guarantee for the party to consolidate its ruling position, provide a strong security guarantee for safeguarding the country's important strategic opportunities, provide a powerful strategic support for safeguarding the national interests, and play an important role in safeguarding world peace and promoting common development." The "three provides, one role," reflect the new requirements of the party's historical task for our army, adapt to the new changes in our country's security situation, reflect the new needs of the national development strategy, conform to the new trends in world military development, grasp the key issues concerning the construction of the army, further expand the functions and tasks of our army, clarify the development goals of national defense and army construction, raise the standards for military struggle preparedness, and enrich the guiding principles for the application of military power. Hu Jintao's important exposition, in line with the important thoughts of Mao Zedong, Deng Xiaoping, and Jiang Zemin on the historical mission of our army, is a major innovation in the party's military guidance theory, marking our party's understanding of the law of national defense and army construction in the new century and stage has reached a new realm.
The new mission given to the Chinese People's Liberation Army by the Party Central Committee and the Central Military Commission is of epoch-making significance. In the past, the Chinese Communist Party's understanding of the historical mission of the people's army was relatively general. It was generally considered that the army was the "strong pillar" of people's democratic dictatorship and the "great wall of steel" defending the motherland. But the new historical mission is no longer just based on political belief, it is based on the commanding heights of the times and comprehensively examines the functions and roles of China's armed forces from the needs of a broader and deeper era.
Although the four aspects covered by the new historical mission are not completely new points for the first time, they form a rigorous logical relationship as a whole for the first time in history. The party in command of the gun is the basic principle of the establishment of the people's army; Marxist state theory believes that the army is a major component of the state. On the basis of these two basic principles, in the state of people's democratic dictatorship, the armed forces must be firmly held in the hands of the ruling party of the working class and play an important role in its effective rule. Positive and negative lessons have repeatedly proved that if these two points are firmly grasped, the cause of socialism will develop forward. On the contrary, under the attack and temptation of internal and external hostile forces, the cause of the party and state is in danger of being toppled, and the interests of the people will be greatly hurt. When we face a complex international environment and a period of frequent domestic contradictions, it becomes particularly important for the army to provide an important force guarantee for the party to consolidate its ruling position.
China's modernization construction cannot be separated from a good international environment, especially in today's increasingly strong trend of global economic globalization, safeguarding world peace is also safeguarding its own development. In the past, our country's comprehensive national strength was not strong enough, so it particularly emphasized the need to seize the opportunity of peace to develop itself. Now, we have a certain foundation, the ability, and the necessity to rely on our own strength, to join all the forces that love and maintain peace in the world to create a peaceful and harmonious international environment.



The entrustment of the function of "playing a significant role in maintaining world peace and promoting common development" to our army by the Central Military Commission can be said to be timely.

Chapter Ten: The Formation of the New Great Project for Party Construction and the "Three Represents" Important Thought

The Party Central Committee, with Jiang Zemin at its core, has formed the important thought of the "Three Represents" through continual summary of experiences from vigorously advancing socialist modernization and the new great project for party construction. The important thought of the "Three Represents" further enriches and develops Marxist socialist construction theory and party building doctrine under new historical conditions. This thought is another significant achievement in the sinicization process of Marxism by the Chinese Communist Party. It fully reflects the new changes in international and domestic historical developments and the new requirements of the times, playing a crucial role in guiding all aspects of contemporary China's development. This is why the 16th National Congress of the Chinese Communist Party officially established it as the guiding thought of the party.

I. Further clarify the overall objective and task of party construction, and continue to advance the new great project

Entering the 1990s, the Chinese Communist Party encountered a new condition, the socialist market economy, during the process of reform and development. Under such conditions, what kind of party should be built, how the party should be constructed, and what goals should be followed for party construction have become new topics for the Chinese Communist Party's own construction. In response to this, the third generation of central leadership, with Jiang Zemin as its core, creatively proposed the overall objective and task for party construction under socialist market conditions, based on Marxist principles of party establishment and the objective reality of China.

1. New requirements set forth by reform, opening up, and the development of the market economy for party construction

Combining the socialist system with the market economy is a great innovation, and it is also a new topic and problem. How to strengthen the party construction under socialist market economy conditions is an unprecedented endeavor and undoubtedly a new challenge for the Chinese Communist Party.

The fundamental problem that the development of a socialist market economy aims to solve is how to transform from planned to market-based. This transition inevitably leads to profound changes in all areas of society, including both the positive impacts and negative effects on party construction.

The positive impact of the market economy on party building is mainly manifested in: First, the market economy follows the basic law of value, emphasizing the principle of material interests, and insists on focusing on efficiency. Acting according to this law helps party organizations and party members to further establish a pragmatic ideological concept and work style, overcoming formalism, falsification, and detachment from reality. Second, the diversification of market entities, diversity of transaction methods, and value orientation of prioritizing efficiency and balancing fairness, help party organizations and members maintain and promote an energetic and hardworking spirit, overcoming the tendencies for conventionality and complacency.



Thirdly, the openness and fairness of market competition contribute to enhancing the democratic awareness of party organizations and party members, overcoming "monologism", and correcting the wrong practice of doing things arbitrarily. Fourthly, the unity and openness of the market system are conducive to party organizations and party members learning and drawing on the beneficial experiences from other regions and countries, overcoming closed and conservative thinking, and enhancing openness awareness. Fifthly, the market economy is a legal economy, where all kinds of market behaviors and the rights and responsibilities of market entities are regulated by laws and regulations. This regulation helps to strengthen the institutional construction thinking of party organizations and party members, and to overcome the tendency not to follow rules and regulations, and not to comply with party discipline. Sixthly, the market economy mainly regulates indirectly through the market, not emphasizing direct administrative intervention. This is conducive to properly handling the relationship between party and government, and overcoming the replacement of the government by the party.

The negative effects of the socialist market economy on party building are mainly manifested in: firstly, the market economy emphasizes material interests, and under the drive of material interests, people's world view, life view, and values can easily become distorted, breeding materialism, hedonism, and individualism. Some people may even lose their party principles, engage in power-money trading, and thus damage the image of the party. This makes the task of educating party members in ideals and beliefs, worldviews, life views, and values under the conditions of a market economy even more difficult. Secondly, the outstanding characteristic of the market economy in terms of activity is the lateral connection between market entities, which has strong spontaneity and dispersion. This can easily dilute party members' overall concept and organizational concept, breed decentralization and anarchism, and thus make the task of managing party members more difficult. Thirdly, the market economy is an open economy, which not only opens internally but also externally, connects the domestic and international markets, and participates in international division and competition as much as possible, in order to effectively allocate domestic resources and use international resources. This feature of openness, on the one hand, promotes rapid population mobility, and on the other hand, it is easy for foreign thoughts and culture to spread with the expansion of opening up. This brings instability to the party membership and difficulties to the work of unifying party members' thoughts.

The socialist market economy is a double-edged sword for party building, with both opportunities and challenges. Facing these opportunities and challenges, the Communist Party of China must adapt to the new requirements of the changing situation, clearly propose the overall goal and tasks of party building suitable for the requirements of the socialist market economy in practice, so as to strengthen its own construction with the development of the times and enhance its ability to control the market economy, and consolidate its ruling position.

2. Further clarification of the overall goal and task of party building
Clarifying the overall goal and task of party building is the primary issue of ruling party construction. After the Communist Party of China came to power, it carried out long-term explorations to establish correct party building goals. After the Third Plenary Session of the Eleventh Central Committee, with the shift of the focus of the party's work, it proposed to build the party into a strong core leading the socialist modernization drive, thus defining the direction of party building during the entire socialist historical period. After the Fourth Plenary Session of the Thirteenth Central Committee, the party central committee, led by Jiang Zemin and in accordance with Deng Xiaoping's political instruction of "focusing on party building", seriously summarized the experience and lessons of party building since the reform and opening up, and actively explored new ways to strengthen party building under the conditions of a socialist market economy, clearly defining the overall goal and task of party building.



The overall goal and task of the party's construction is gradually formed in the practice of strengthening and improving the party's construction by the central leadership collective with Jiang Zemin at the core. In August 1989, the central government issued a notice on strengthening the construction of the party, requiring party committees at all levels to resolutely solve the urgent problems in the current party construction in accordance with the requirements of the party's basic line, so that the party could withstand the test of governance, the test of reform and opening up and the development of commodity economy, as well as the test against peaceful evolution. In March 1990, the 13th Central Committee's Sixth Plenary Session emphasized in the decision on strengthening the connection between the party and the masses that now, our party, and the country are at a critical period of historical development. The relationship between the party and the masses, and the relationship between cadres and the masses are generally good. But in recent years, some party members and cadres have also seen serious corruption phenomena that are disconnected from the masses, which all comrades in the party must remain highly vigilant and persist in fighting against. In 1992, the 14th Congress of the Party highlighted the tasks of learning Deng Xiaoping’s theory of socialism with Chinese characteristics, strengthening party construction, strengthening relations between the party and the masses, strengthening the construction of grassroots organizations, and persevering and improving democratic centralism in line with the needs of a socialist market economy. 

To implement the tasks of party construction proposed by the 14th Congress, and make party construction compatible with the reform of the socialist market economy system, the 14th Central Committee's Fourth Plenary Session held in September 1994 made the "Decision on Several Major Issues of Strengthening the Party's Construction" (referred to as the "Decision"). The "Decision" clearly put forward the total goal and task of the new great project of party construction, that is, "building the party into a Marxist party that is armed with the theory of socialism with Chinese characteristics, serves the people wholeheartedly, is fully consolidated ideologically, politically and organizationally, can withstand various risks, and always takes the lead in the times". According to this general goal and task, the "Decision" required to focus on solving the central link of the party's organizational construction while continuing to carry out central deployment on ideological construction and style of work. In particular, three issues needed to be addressed: First, persist and improve democratic centralism, paying special attention to system construction; Second, strengthen and improve the construction of the party's grassroots organizations; Third, cultivate and select leaders who are both morally upright and professionally competent especially young cadres. Paying attention to system construction is an important feature of the "Decision" passed at this meeting.

In September 1997, the 15th party congress summarized the new experience of party construction and further summarized the overall goals and tasks of party construction proposed at the 14th Central Committee's Fourth Plenary Session as: "Building the party into a Marxist party that is armed with Deng Xiaoping’s theory, serves the people wholeheartedly, is fully consolidated ideologically, politically and organizationally, can withstand various risks, always takes the lead in the times, and leads the entire nation in building socialism with Chinese characteristics." The congress called on the entire party to strengthen party construction in ideologically, organizationally, and behaviorally according to the general goal of the new grand project of party construction, continuously improve the leadership level and steadily increase the ability to resist corruption and risk, and lead the people to complete new historical tasks with a new look and stronger combat power.

3. Preliminary implementation of the overall goal and task of party construction
After the Fourth Plenary Session of the 14th Central Committee, party construction gradually started in various aspects such as ideology, politics, and organization according to the requirements of the overall goals and tasks.

In terms of ideological construction, the 14th Congress of the Party established the guiding position of Deng Xiaoping's theory of socialism with Chinese characteristics in the entire party and proposed the strategic task of arming the entire party with this theory. In 1993 and 1994, after the publication of the first, second, and third volumes of Deng Xiaoping's Selected Works, the central government immediately issued a notice requesting the entire party to organize serious learning.



From the end of 1993 to May 1994, the central government successively organized 175 leaders from various departments of the party, government, and military, as well as some experts and scholars, to participate in four batches of theoretical seminars for provincial and ministerial leaders at the Central Party School, conducting diligent study of the "Selected Works of Deng Xiaoping". In order to further advance the training of cadres, in May 1996, the central government formulated the "National Cadre Education and Training Plan for 1996-2000", giving comprehensive arrangements for strengthening the ideological and theoretical education of cadres.
In the process of conducting theoretical learning throughout the Party, a complete set of study systems has been gradually established. This includes mechanisms like regular party school training for party committee members at the county level and above, study sessions of the party committee's central group, and more. In addition, organizations at all levels have adopted various forms such as organizing lecturer groups for tutoring and conducting theoretical seminars, to promote widespread learning. These measures have stimulated the enthusiasm of the vast number of Party members and cadres for learning theory, and promoted the improvement of the Party's theoretical level.
In terms of improving the democratic centralist system, after the 14th National Congress of the Communist Party of China, the CPC Central Committee gradually strengthened the building of the party's democratic centralist system in response to the problems of insufficient democracy and centralization within the party. In terms of safeguarding the democratic rights of party members, democratic channels within the party have been unhindered and expanded, allowing party members to participate more in party affairs. By establishing effective mechanisms, it is ensured that grassroots party members can timely reflect their opinions to higher party organizations through lower party organizations. Based on fully listening to the opinions of party members and lower party organizations, collective wisdom is gathered to continuously advance the scientific and democratic decision-making process. 
In rural grassroots party organization construction,  in 1990, the Central Organization Department held a meeting in Laixi, Shandong, establishing the core leadership role of the party branch in the village-level organization. In 1992, the Central Organization Department held a meeting in Zhangqiu, Shandong, summarizing and promoting the experience of "law-based establishment, rule of law village governance, democratic management", pushing the rural grass-roots organizations with the party branch as the core onto the track of standardization and institutionalization.
In terms of the construction of grassroots Party organizations in state-owned enterprises, in December 1996, the Organization Department of the CPC Central Committee, the Central Policy Research Office, the State Economic Trade Commission, the State Commission for Economic Reform, the All-China Federation of Trade Unions and other agencies held a joint meeting on the construction work of state-owned enterprises in Beijing.



In January 1997, the Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) issued the "Notice on Further Strengthening and Improving the Party Building of State-owned Enterprises", which clearly specified the goals, policies, and principles of the building of party organizations in state-owned enterprises. In line with the spirit of this document, party committees at all levels, in the process of establishing a modern corporate system, uphold the party's political leadership over enterprises, play the central political role of enterprise party organizations, adhere to the policy of fully relying on the working class, and explore new pathways and methods for party building work centred around enterprise reform and development, achieving notable results and accumulating new experiences.

In terms of party building in urban streets, in June 1995, some street-level cadres from 16 provinces and cities across the country met in Tianjin to discuss how to enhance the construction of urban grassroots party organizations, and exchanged their experiences. A year later, based on a comprehensive understanding of various aspects, the Central Organization Department issued the "Opinions on Strengthening the Construction of Street Party Work" on September 3, 1996, demanding that the construction of Street Party Work should start from the characteristics and realities of urban work under the new situation, focus on improving urban management, social services, maintaining social stability and developing the street economy, strengthening the construction of the leadership team, and enhancing the quality of cadres, augment the cohesion and fighting power of the party organization, fully play the vanguard and exemplary role of party members, and serve the healthy development of the construction of material and spiritual civilization in urban socialism. In line with this spirit, cities across the country gradually established a network system for the street community party organization work, making the street community party organizations increasingly play an important role in enhancing the building of spiritual civilization and mass ideological and political work, improving comprehensive social security, strengthening the connection between the party and the masses, and elevating the quality of residents and the level of urban civilization.

In terms of party building in non-public economic organizations, this period also saw further strengthening. In areas where the non-public economy is relatively developed, party organizations have been gradually established in some foreign-invested and private enterprises, and the cohesion of party organizations and the role of Communist Party members as pioneers and role models are also well embodied in these enterprises. In September 2000, the Central Organization Department issued the "Opinions on Strengthening the Party Building in Individual and Private and Other Non-Public Economic Organizations (Trial)" based on extensive investigations, research, and summarizations of practical experiences across the country. According to this document, by June 2001, the number of party organizations established in non-public enterprises nationwide had grown to 44,000.

At the same time, the CCP Central Committee also proposed a series of new ideas and requirements for the party building work in organs, schools, research institutes, and other departments, which greatly strengthened the construction of grassroots party organizations under new historical conditions.

While strengthening the construction of grassroots party organizations, party organizations at all levels also generally strengthened the building of party member teams. According to the principles of "upholding standards, perfecting structures, developing prudently, and ensuring quality", a constant inflow of advanced individuals from various fronts have been introduced into the party member teams, thus bringing fresh blood into the party organizations. The cohesion and creativity of the party organizations have been continuously enhanced.

4. Uphold and improve democratic centralism, and strengthen the construction of the party's internal democratic system
Democratic centralism, the combination of centralism on the basis of democracy and democracy under centralized guidance, is the application of Marxist epistemology and mass line in the party's life and organization building. The democracy of democratic centralism refers to the full expression of party members' and party organizations' will and aspirations and the full demonstration of their initiative and creativity; the centralization of democratic centralism represents the aggregation of the party's collective will and wisdom and consistent action.

According to the tasks and requirements proposed by the Fourth Plenary Session of the 14th Central Committee of the Party, the Party Central Committee, facing the problem of lack of democracy and centralization within the party, has adopted a series of measures to vigorously strengthen and improve the democratic centralism of the Party.



On the one hand, the party adheres to the goal of realizing the party's program, with the starting point of guiding, protecting, and stimulating positivity. It actively clears and widens the democratic channels within the party, allowing party members to have a better understanding and participation in party affairs. The central committee of the party to each branch, from decision-making in leadership organs to discussions on policy issues at party meetings and on party publications, from internal elections to evaluations and supervision of leadership cadres, all need to fully develop democracy. To protect the democratic rights of the party members, in December 1994, the Central Party Committee formulated and issued the "Regulations on the Protection of the Rights of the Communist Party of China (Trial)", which clearly stipulates the principles for correctly exercising the rights of party members and the measures to guarantee them.

On the other hand, focusing on the overall situation of the party's work, re-affirming the party constitution regulations, emphasizing "four obediences" to ensure the smooth flow of central orders, it is essential to maintain consistency with the central on the party's basic route, overall guideline, overall policy, overall goal, and major issues related to the overall situation. To strengthen and improve the party's leadership, the central also proposed to further improve the deliberation and decision-making mechanism within the party committee according to the principle of "collective leadership, democratic centralism, individual brewing, and meeting decisions". They aim to establish and perfect the decision-making mechanism that combines leadership, experts, and the masses, gradually improve the democratic scientific decision-making system, adhere to and improve the system that combines collective leadership with individual division of labor; formulate regulations for the work of central and local party committees, further clarify and standardize the scope of responsibility, meeting rules, decision-making procedures of the party committee and its standing committee; perfect the party congress system, further play the role of all meetings of the party's central and various levels of local committees; improve the organizational life meeting system, the system of democratic life meetings of party member leaders, perfect various norms of inner-party political life; improve the inner-party supervision, seriously deal with party discipline, formulate inner-party supervision regulations, perfect the inner-party supervision system, and combine the inner-party supervision with mass supervision, public opinion supervision, the supervision of democratic parties and non-party personages, combine top-down and bottom-up supervision, gradually form a strong supervision system; according to the principle of controlling the overall situation, coordinating all parties, further strengthen and perfect the party's leadership system, both to ensure the core leadership role of the party committee, and to fully play the role of the NPC, government, CPPCC, as well as people's groups and other sectors.

The implementation of these principles enables the democratic centralism construction of the party to move gradually towards institutionalization and standardization.
5. Carry out "three talks" education to explore new ways of strengthening party building.

On the journey to the new century, facing the new situation and new tasks of deepening reform and opening up, the party central committee with Jiang Zemin as the core, based on a thorough summary of the party's historical experience, created a new form of party spirit and style education centered on "three talks" (talking about learning, politics, and integrity) and achieved remarkable results.
In 1995, Jiang Zemin pointed out repeatedly the need to educate cadres to talk about learning, politics, and integrity in response to issues faced by some cadres who didn't pay attention to learning and self-improvement under the new situation of developing a market economy, and lost their way in the increasingly complex struggle, embarking on the path of corruption and degeneration. This requirement immediately attracted the high attention of party committees at all levels, and "three talks" gradually became an important content of education for party member cadres. In 1998, the Central Organization Department, in conjunction with relevant departments, after repeated studies and consultations, formulated the implementation plan for "three talks" education.
On November 21 of the same year, the Central Committee issued the "Opinions on Carrying out Party Spirit and Style Education Among Party and Government Leadership Teams and Leaders at Contents of 'Talking about Learning, Politics, and Integrity" at County Level and Above", making comprehensive arrangements for carrying out "three talks" education. Since then, "three talks" education began to be carried out in phases and batches.
This "three talks" education was carried out from top to bottom. The central directly-controlled organs, central state organs, and provinces, autonomous regions, municipalities directly under the central government, and their directly-controlled organs were the first to pilot, and then it was carried out at the county level.




On December 5, 1998, the central government specifically convened a national television and telephone conference, where Hu Jintao delivered a mobilization speech on the "three-stress" education. Since then, the central government has first piloted the initiative in Shandong, Guangxi, and Inner Mongolia, as well as the Ministry of Land and Resources, the Ministry of Education, the State Administration of Radio, Film, and Television, and the Central Committee of the Communist Youth League. The implementation of the “three-stress” in the pilot units was undertaken in four steps: ideological mobilization, learning and improvement, self-analysis, feedback collection, idea exchange, criticism, and self-criticism, targeted rectifications, and result consolidation.

On March 19, 1999, in order to summarize and exchange the situation and experience of the "three-stress" education pilot, and to study and deploy the next-step work, the central government held the first national "three-stress" education work meeting. The meeting heard the experience presentations of the pilot units and made arrangements for the first phase of the "three-stress" education work, deciding to carry out the "three-stress" in two batches at the provincial and ministerial level units. The first batch included 16 provinces, regions, and cities like Beijing and Hubei and 70 central and national ministries and bureaus including the Supreme People's Procuratorate; the second batch included 12 provinces, cities, and regions like Zhejiang and Ningxia, and 6 finance ministries and bureaus.

The Politburo members of the Central Committee attached great importance to the "three-stress" education and also specifically made time for "three-stress" study at the end of 1999, seriously reviewing and summarizing the work and basic experience over the ten years since the Fourth Plenary Session of the 13th Central Committee, and profoundly reflecting on some major strategic issues in the future reform and development.

After the first "three-stress" education work conference, the central government also held the second and third national "three-stress" education work conferences in June 1999 and January 2000, respectively, to deploy the "three-stress" work at all stages. According to these deployments, the central government sent several inspection teams to the provinces, autonomous regions, municipalities, and central and national ministries to understand the situation and strengthen guidance and inspection supervision. After the concentrated "three-stress" education, various regions and units carried out the "look-back" activities according to the central requirements, to consolidate and expand the results of the "three-stress" education.

According to the central deployment, the "three-stress" education has also been carried out at the county (city) level. To successfully carry out this education, the members of the Politburo Standing Committee visited seven counties (cities) to conduct in-depth investigations, research, and specific guidance. On February 20, 2000, Jiang Zemin personally attended the "three-stress" education conference for leaders in Gaozhou City, Guangdong Province, and delivered a mobilization speech. These measures demonstrated the Party Central Committee's high attention to the "three-stress" education and greatly promoted the "three-stress" education at the county (city) level. By the end of September 2000, the "three-stress" education of party and government leadership teams and leading cadres at and above the county level was basically completed and began to summarize and improve and entered a thorough rectification stage.

From 1998 to the end of 2000, a total of 700,000 leading cadres of the party participated in the "three-stress" education. Party cadre and the masses showed a high participation enthusiasm towards this education activity, with more than 5 million people directly listening to mobilization reports, participating in democratic evaluations, and assisting in corrections.



The majority of cadres have undergone a profound education in Marxism and endured a rigorous democaratic training within the party, leading to noticeable improvements in adhering to mass line and the party's democratic centralism. Practice has shown that the "Three Emphasizes" education is a creative exploration and successful practice in strengthening party building under the new circumstances, and in particular, the ideological and political building of leading cadres and teams, and it is an enrichment and amplification of Yanan Rectification spirit and the party's "Three Greate Styles" in the new historical period.

II. Train and select leading cadres of both moral integrity and professional competence, and build a team of high-quality cadres 

After the political route is determined, cadres become the decisive factor. Training and selecting leading cadres of both moral integrity and professional competence, is the fundamental strategy for the long term stability of the party and the state. The work of building a high-quality cadre team started in the 1980s and accelerated in the 1990s. 

In 1991, the CPC Central Committee specifically decided to cultivate and educate young cadre. Clear requirements were made to strengthen the strict requirements and management of young cadres, strengthen ideological and theoretical education, and they were encouraged to gain experience through exchanges and rotations. In October 1992, the Fourteenth National Congress of the Party clearly proposed the cadre team's "Four-Transformations" guidelines and to cultivate and select successors of socialist cause in accordance with the principle of both moral integrity and professional competence. At the Fourth Plenary Session of the Fourteenth CPC Central Committee in September 1994, the training and selection of leading cadres of both moral integrity and professional competence were put forth as two major strategic tasks. At the same time, four requirements for cadre system reform were also proposed: First, to enlarge democracy in the selection and appointment of leading cadres. Regardless of whether they are elected, appointed or hired, they need to follow the mass line, and let the masses participate more through democratic recommendation, democratic testing or democratic review. Second, improve the performance appraisal system for leading cadres, and link it with promotion and reward and punishment system. Third, earnestly implement the rotation system for leading cadres, and combine it with the avoidance system and the term system of leading teams at all levels. Fourth, strengthen supervision and inspection of the selection and appointment of leading cadres to forcefully prevent and correct malpractice in cadre employment. The principles proposed by the Fourteenth National Congress and the four reform requirements proposed by the Fourth Plenary Session of the Fourteenth Central Committee are guiding opinions put forward for the training and selection of leading cadres from the height of the 1990s. These principles and requirements have clear direction, fully reflect the characteristics of democracy and openness, are easy to operate, and have strong guiding function.

To implement the spirit of the Fourteenth National Congress and the Fourth Plenary Session of the Fourteenth Central Committee, the National Organization Work Conference was held in Beijing from November 30 to December 3, 1994. The conference focused on studying and deploying the work of training and selecting leading cadres of both moral integrity and professional competence, and strengthening the building of leading teams at all levels. On November 30, Hu Jintao made a report titled "Focus on training and selecting leading cadres of both moral integrity and professional competence, and build leading teams at all levels capable of upholding the Party's basic line" at the meeting, proposing to make improving the quality of the Party and government leading cadres at the county level or above a focus of future cadre work. On December 2, Jiang Zemin spoke at the meeting, emphasizing that the cadre team must focus on accomplishing two strategic tasks in the current and future periods: first, to fully improve the quality of existing leading cadres and build up the leading teams at all levels above the county level; second, to focus on training and selecting excellent young cadres and strive to create a large number of leading talents who can take on heavy responsibilities crossing centuries. Jiang Zemin and Hu Jintao's speeches further clarified the key tasks of the training and selection of leading cadres with both moral integrity and professional competence.



In order to truly focus and implement the work of training and selecting leading cadres, in January 1995, the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China issued the "Notice of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China on Urgently Training and Selecting Outstanding Young Cadres." This notice required organizations at all levels to improve and strengthen the work for reserve cadres, ensuring there were adequate substitutes for leadership positions at all levels. The notice also called to intensify training and comprehensively improve the quality of young cadres. It stressed that the training and selection of young cadres must aim for the healthy growth of a generation. In accordance with the above requirements, party committees at the central and local levels have strengthened cadre training and education efforts.

Simultaneously improving the process of cadre training and education, the rational selection of cadres was also put on the agenda. In January 1995, the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China issued a notice on the issue of training and selecting outstanding young cadres, clearly stating the goals, principles, and requirements for selecting young cadres. In February 1995, the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China issued the "Interim Regulation on the Selection and Appointment of Party and Government Leading Cadres," which made clear regulations in the form of regulations on the principles, conditions, procedures, and methods for selecting and appointing cadres. 

On June 21, 1996, Jiang Zemin delivered an important speech entitled "Strive to Build a High-quality Cadre Team" at a symposium to commemorate the 75th anniversary of the founding of the Communist Party of China. This further proposed to improve the political and professional quality of party cadres according to five standards: Firstly, they should have far-reaching communist ideals, adhere to the correct political direction, firmly walk the path of socialism with Chinese characteristics, and firmly implement the party's basic theory, basic line and various policies and policies. Secondly, they should work hard to practice the party's purpose of serving the people wholeheartedly, maintain close contact with the masses, especially the workers and peasants, and resolutely safeguard the interests of the people. Thirdly, free their minds, seek truth from facts, start from reality in everything, be good at forging ahead, and have the method of dialectical materialism and work style. Fourthly, they should be models of compliance with the law and maintaining integrity, promote the spirit of hard work, consciously resist corruption and oppose negative corruption. Fifthly, they should study diligently and work industriously, continuously strengthen knowledge accumulation and experience accumulation, and have the professional knowledge and ability to do their jobs well.

After 1996, the selection and appointment of cadres gradually moved towards institutionalization and standardization under the joint efforts of the Party Central Committee and party committees at all levels. In August 2000, the Central Government issued the "Outline for Deepening the Reform of the Cadre Personnel System", which made clear regulations on the basic goals, guidelines and principles of reform, the reform of the party and government cadre system, and the reform of the personnel system of state-owned enterprises. In July 2002, based on the achievements of cadre personnel system reform since 1995, and in accordance with the requirements of the new century, new stage, and new tasks, the Central Government revised and improved the "Interim Regulation on the Selection and Appointment of Party and Government Leading Cadres," and promulgated the "Regulation on the Selection and Appointment of Party and Government Leading Cadres". This regulation made more scientific, standardized and strict provisions for the basic principles, basic procedures, basic methods of cadre selection and appointment, and the expansion of democracy and strengthening of supervision etc. This provides basic rules and guarantees for preventing and controlling malpractices in personnel, promoting the scientific, democratic, and institutionalized cadre work from the source. In 2004, the central government further intensified the reform of the cadre personnel system, and the Central Government successively promulgated five documents including the "Interim Regulations on the Open Selection of Party and Government Leading Cadres" and the "Interim Regulations on Competing for Posts in Party and Government Organs". Together with the "Notice on Cleaning up the Concurrent Positions of Party and Government Leading Cadres in Enterprises" issued jointly by the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection and the Central Organization Department with the approval of the Central Government at the beginning of 2004, they are collectively referred to as the "5+1" documents. These documents and the "Civil Servant Law of the People's Republic of China" issued in 2005 make systematic and clear regulations on the selection and appointment of leading cadres. The promulgation of these policies and regulations has further improved the system for selecting and appointing leading cadres, and has gradually put the work of selecting and appointing leading cadres on the track of institutionalization and standardization, which has powerfully assured the rise of outstanding talents and timely cooperation and rotation of old and new leading cadres at all levels.



III. Strengthening party style construction and conducting long-term anti-corruption efforts

How can a political party maintain a healthy body is a historical subject that Marxists of all ages have been striving for. After history entered the 1990s, with the development and change of social conditions, the Communist Party of China gradually put forward and formed a set of systems and thought in the practice of anti-corruption and advocacy of integrity. These systems and thought are more reflected in the original development and creation of Chinese communists in the process of sinicization of Marxism.

As China entered a new stage of reform and opening-up, our country is transitioning from a planned economic system to a socialist market economic system. Because the shortcomings of the old system were not completely eliminated, the legal system was not yet perfect, there were certain weak points in supervision and management. Coupled with certain places and departments ignoring ideological and political work, some party and government organs and law enforcement departments were corrupted and trending to spread and develop.

Facing the severe situation of anti-corruption struggle, the CPC Central Committee and the State Council actively took targeted measures. As early as the beginning of the reform and opening up, the party began to pay attention to the problem of opposing unhealthy trends. In 1987, the 13th National Congress of the Communist Party officially proposed the policy of "strictly governing the party". After the 13th National Congress, various measures for integrity construction were introduced one after another. From August 20 to 25, 1993, the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection held its second plenary session in Beijing. Jiang Zemin proposed three aspects to strengthen anti-corruption work: First, party and government leaders at all levels should lead by example in integrity. Second, focus on investigating a number of major cases, with priority given to cases involving party and government leading organs and judicial departments, administrative law enforcement departments, economic management department staff. Third, focus on the prominent issues of the local area, department, or unit, and curb the unhealthy trends that the masses are most dissatisfied with. These three requirements pointed the investigation of major cases directly at the "three organs and one department" - Party and government leadership organs, leaders, judicial organs, administrative law enforcement organs, economic management departments and their staff. According to the spirit of Jiang Zemin's speech and the needs of the anti-corruption struggle situation, the plenum made five regulations on the issue of corruption among county (department) level and above leaders: First, they are not allowed to do business or run companies, engage in paid intermediary activities, or use their power to provide any favorable conditions for their spouses, children, and kin to do business or run companies. Second, they are not allowed to hold concurrent positions in various economic entities (including honorary positions), and those who are approved individually are not allowed to receive any remuneration; they are not allowed to reimburse personal expenses at their subordinate units and other enterprise and institution units. Third, they are not allowed to buy and sell stocks. Fourth, they are not allowed to accept gifts and various securities in official activities; they are not allowed to accept credit cards given by their subordinate units and other units, nor are they allowed to use credit cards handled with public funds for personal use. Fifth, they are not allowed to acquire membership in any form of clubs with public funds, nor are they allowed to participate in high consumption entertainment activities with public funds.

On October 5, 1993, the CPC Central Committee and the State Council made a decision on several matters to be focused on in the near term in the fight against corruption, reiterating the three tasks of fighting corruption put forward at the second plenum of the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection and the "five regulations" for leaders.



In February 1994, the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection of the Communist Party of China (CCDI) convened its third plenary meeting in Beijing. Based on the "five regulations" proposed at the second plenary session, the following requirements were reiterated: First, it is forbidden to violate regulations to buy and replace imported luxury cars. It is forbidden to use one's power to exchange vehicles, borrow vehicles, and apportion funds for vehicles from enterprises and subordinate units. It is forbidden to use loans, fund-raising, and special funds to purchase cars for use by leading cadres. County (city) party and government leading organs and units are not allowed to purchase cars if they owe wages to their employees. Second, it is forbidden to violate the State Council's regulations on housing system reform to purchase housing at a discount; it is forbidden to misuse one's power to provide preferential conditions for oneself and one's children and friends to buy houses; it is forbidden to use public funds for overstandard decoration of personal houses. Third, leading cadres must be frugal in their domestic official activities, and accommodation and meals should not exceed local reception standards. It is forbidden to hold special dances for leading cadres. Fourth, it is forbidden to hold lavish and wasteful events for personal and family weddings, funerals, job transfers, birthdays, and house moving, especially using public funds and items, or taking advantage of these events to make illicit money. Fifth, it is forbidden to use one's power to withhold public funds; it is forbidden to borrow public funds to buy houses, set up private houses, and engage in profitable activities for oneself and one's relatives and friends. In May, the CCDI formulated the implementation opinions on the "new five regulations" of integrity and self-discipline for leading cadres. 

To further implement the above-mentioned work arrangements of the Party Central Committee and the State Council on the fight against corruption, in June 1994, the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China decided to organize 20 investigation groups, which conducted supervisory inspections on the situation of anti-corruption work in 24 ministries of the central state organs and 24 provinces, autonomous regions, and municipalities directly under the central government in late June and early July. Based on the investigations and studies, in January 1995, the Fifth Plenary Session of the CCDI made four supplementary regulations on the integrity and self-discipline of leading cadres: First, it is forbidden to keep for oneself discounts, intermediary fees, and gift money received in business and management activities; it is forbidden to violate regulations to receive wages and bonuses for part-time jobs. Second, individuals are not allowed to run businesses or enterprises privately; it is forbidden to use one's power to provide various convenience conditions for one's relatives and friends to run businesses and enterprises. Third, it is forbidden to violate regulations to occupy more housing; it is forbidden to use public funds to buy and build over-standard residences. Fourth, it is forbidden to buy cars during the period of non-policy losses in enterprises, arrears of wages of employees and teachers; it is forbidden to buy imported luxury cars such as Mercedes, Lincoln, Cadillac, and Duke. The provisions on integrity and self-discipline for leading cadres in public institutions shall be implemented with reference to the provisions on integrity and self-discipline for leading cadres of state-owned enterprises. In April, the CCDI formulated the implementation and handling opinions on the "supplementary regulations" related to the integrity and self-discipline of leading cadres. The regulations stipulate: It is forbidden to violate the rules to build private houses; it is forbidden to violate the rules to participate in collective housing construction; it is forbidden to violate the rules to use military and police license plates and foreign license plates; it is not allowed to use public funds and unit vehicles to learn driving technology without approval; it is forbidden to participate in commercial karaoke halls, dance halls, nightclubs and other entertainment activities paid by public funds; in contacts with units and individuals in the same country, it is forbidden to accept banquets that may affect the fair execution of official duties.

The aforementioned regulations and opinions have put forward clear requirements for the self-discipline of leading cadres and enabled the anti-corruption work to have rules to follow. Based on this, in January 1996, the Sixth Plenary Session of the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection further clarified that in order to deepen the construction of party conduct, clean government and the fight against corruption, the work format of self-discipline of leading cadres, investigation and punishment of violations of laws and disciplines, and rectification of improper conduct in departments and industries shall be followed. The conference also specially required that the leading cadres at the provincial and ministerial levels abide by the various regulations of integrity and self-discipline, abide by party discipline and national law. What they ask their subordinates to do, they must do first; what they prohibit others from doing, they must firmly refrain from doing.



The conference proposed the implementation of a responsibility system for the fight against corruption, holding leaders accountable for serious corruption issues in their regions, departments, and among family and friends. 
In order to ensure that all regulations regarding the integrity and self-discipline of relevant leaders are effectively implemented, the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection has taken a series of specific measures: First, it has dispatched ministerial cadres to localities and departments for inspections, responsible for understanding the implementation of the party's line, principles, and policies, as well as the integrity situation of the provincial and ministerial leadership teams and their members, and reporting directly to the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection and timely reports to the party central committee; Second, it stipulates that the disciplinary committees (disciplinary inspection groups) of the party's local and departmental organizations have the right to conduct preliminary verification and directly report to the superior Discipline Inspection Commission when they find that the party committee (party group) of the same level or its members violate the party's discipline, no organization or individual should interfere or obstruct; Third, it requires the disciplinary committees (disciplinary inspection groups) of the party's local and departmental organizations, when receiving reports and accusations against members of the party committee (party group) of the same level, must report to the party committee (party group) of the same level and the disciplinary inspection committee of the higher level, no one has the right to withhold the report.
While continuously perfecting the above rules and regulations, the CPC Central Committee and the State Council further improved relevant organizations and systems. Among them, in terms of system building, after the sixteen party congress, with Hu Jintao as the general secretary of the party central committee, great emphasis was put on the building and innovation of the anti-corruption system, making an effort to prevent and solve corruption from the source. The third plenum of the 16th Central Committee first proposed to establish a complete system of education, supervision, and punishment for the prevention of corruption that is compatible with the socialist market economy. Subsequently, the four plenary sessions of the 16th Central Committee proposed a 16-character guideline for party conduct, integrity construction, and the fight against corruption in the new situation, namely, "treating both symptoms and root causes, comprehensive management, punishment and prevention, with emphasis on prevention", and required the urgent establishment of a system of education, institutional mechanism, and supervision against corruption. In December 2004, the Central Politburo reviewed and approved the "Outline for the Implementation of a Comprehensive System of Education, Institutional Mechanisms, and Supervision Against Corruption" (referred to as the Outline), clearly stating the guiding ideology, main objectives, and working principles for the establishment of a system against corruption. The main goal of establishing a full system against corruption, as proposed in the Outline, is to establish a basic framework for the punishment and prevention of corruption by 2010; after a period of efforts, to establish a long-term mechanism for moral education, a systemic mechanism against corruption, a mechanism for the monitoring of power, and a complete system for the punishment and prevention of corruption. The working principles are: (1) Persist in and improve the socialist market economy, develop socialist democratic politics, build an advanced socialist culture, and construct a harmonious socialist society; (2) Persist in attaching equal importance to education, institutional mechanisms, and supervision; (3) Persist in the unity of scientific, systematic, and feasible; (4) Persist in the combination of inheritance and innovation. The "Outline" is the guiding document for carrying out the construction of party conduct, integrity, and anti-corruption work at present and for a period in the future. In January 2005, the CPC Central Committee distributed the "Outline" nationwide, urging all levels of party committees and governments to implement all the work of anti-corruption effectively.
During the process of promoting the construction of the integrity system, the Party and the State have successively introduced a series of regulations, continuously enriching and perfecting the content of the integrity system. In December 2003, the CPC Central Committee promulgated the "Regulations on Inner-party Supervision of the Communist Party of China (Trial)", which for the first time comprehensively regulated the main focus, methods, and measures of inner-party supervision through party regulations, clearly stating that the main targets of inner-party supervision are the leading organs at all levels, the leading cadres, especially the main leaders of the leadership teams at all levels . In December 2003, the CPC Central Committee promulgated the revised "Disciplinary Measures of the Communist Party of China", which made comprehensive and specific clear provisions for the handling of various disciplinary violations by party members under the new situation.



In line with the goal of establishing a power operation mechanism that is reasonably structured, scientifically configured, strictly procedural, and effectively constrained, the Communist Party of China integrates the strengthening of institutional constraints on power with effective supervision of cadres. In September 2004, the Central Committee issued the "Regulations on the Protection of Rights of Members of the Communist Party of China". The Central Office has also successively issued laws and regulations such as the "Supervisory and Inspection Measures for the Selection and Employment of Leading Cadres of the Party and Government (Trial)" and the "Interim Provisions for the Open Selection of Leading Cadres of the Party and Government". In July 2005, the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection discussed and adopted the "Regulations on Assisting Party Committees in Coordinating Anti-Corruption Work by the Disciplinary Committee (Trial)". In April 2007, the State Council announced the "Regulations on Civil Servant Punishment in Administrative Organs". In addition, the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection, in conjunction with relevant departments, has successively formulated a series of supporting regulations such as the "Interim Provisions on Inspection Work of the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection of the Communist Party of China and the Organization Department of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China", and the "Opinions on the Performance of Supervisory Duties by Discipline Inspection Groups Dispatched by the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection of the Communist Party of China". The issuance of these laws and regulations has initially formed a system of internal supervision laws and regulations of the Party, with the Party Constitution at the core, supervision regulations as the mainstay, and a series of supporting regulations as important supplements.

Establishing and perfecting the system of combating and preventing corruption is a major decision made by the Party Central Committee based on summarizing historical experience and scientifically judging the situation. It is a further deepening of the Party's understanding of the law of governance and the law of anti-corruption and integrity work. The establishment and gradual improvement of this system has mutually promoted the Advanced Nature Education activities among Communist Party members, effectively strengthened the Party's governance capacity and advanced nature construction, and enhanced the Party's ability to resist corruption and resist risks under the conditions of developing a socialist market economy.

Fourth, the Formation and Establishment of the Guiding Status of the "Three Represents" Important Thought

Since the Fourth Plenary Session of the 13th Party Congress, the Party Central Committee, with Jiang Zemin at the core, has held high the great banner of Deng Xiaoping Theory, grasped the characteristics of the times accurately, scientifically judged the historical position of our Party, focused on building socialism with Chinese characteristics, with wisdom of the whole Party, proposed the important thought of the "Three Represents" with tremendous courage for theoretical innovation in Marxism. After the proposal of the "Three Represents" important thought, it became the guiding thought of the Party at the 16th Party Congress in 2002 after further enrichment and development.

1. The Formation of the "Three Represents" Important Thought

Through continuously summarizing the historical experience of the Party and the practical experience since the Fourth Plenary Session of the 13th Party Congress, the Party Central Committee, with Jiang Zemin at its core, has gained a deeper understanding of what socialism is, how to build socialism, and how to build a Party like this and how to build the Party. This laid the foundation for the clear proposal of the "Three Represents" important thought. Based on this, on February 20, 2000, at the "Three Talks" education conference for leading cadres in Guangdong, Jiang Zemin proposed the "Five Always" requirement. After participating in the Gaozhou's "Three Talks" meeting, from February 21 to 25, Jiang Zemin went to Shenzhen, Shunde and Guangzhou for field studies. On the 24th, he held a symposium on Party building in Guangzhou, where he further clearly proposed the "Three Represents" thought. At the meeting, Jiang Zemin said: "Summarizing our Party's more than 70 years of history, we can draw an important conclusion, that is, our Party has won the support of the people because, in the various historical periods of revolution, construction, and reform, it always represents the needs of advanced social productive forces in China, represents the forward direction of advanced culture in China, represents the fundamental interests of the most people in China, and through formulating correct line, principles and policies, strives tirelessly for the realization of the fundamental interests of the country and the people..."



"Under the new historical conditions, all Communist Party members and leaders should deeply understand and firmly grasp the 'Three Represents'. They should use it to guide their thoughts and actions. Only in this way can they truly become qualified members and leaders of the Party." This was Jiang Zemin's creative answer to the question of what kind of party and how to build the party after the fourth plenary session of the 14th CPC Central Committee and the 15th National Congress, based on new changes in the international and domestic situation. This answer made the overall goal and mission of party building more clear, and the direction of party building more explicit. 

The proposal of "Three Represents' important thought" caused a strong response both inside and outside the party, domestically and abroad. The entire party and country enthusiastically studied and researched it, deepening their understanding of this important thought. On this basis, Jiang Zemin discussed the issue of strengthening and improving the party's leadership under new circumstances from different angles at the economic work conference, united front work conference, and central discipline commission conference, enriching and perfecting the "Three Represents' important thought". 

After the proposal of the "Three Represents' important thought", the party central committee mainly focused on two areas of work to implement this important thought:

The first is carrying out study and education activities of the "Three Represents' important thought". On November 30, 2000, the General Office of the CPC Central Committee specifically formulated the "Opinions on Carrying out 'Three Represents' Important Thought Study and Education Activities in Rural Areas", requiring that starting from the winter of 2000 and the spring of 2001, leadership teams and grass-roots cadres in counties (cities), townships, and villages across the country should carry out the study and education activities of the "Three Represents' important thought" in a planned and step-by-step manner within about two years. Party committees and governments at all levels quickly formulated implementation plans. Many provinces, cities (cities), and counties have also implemented a responsibility system, determined contact points, carried out in-depth grassroots investigations and studies, and guided work face-to-face. Through the implementation of this activity, the ideological style and work style of grassroots cadres in rural areas have improved significantly, further promoting rural economic development and improving farmers' lives. 

The second is to carry out extensive topic research on party building as a key subject. Relevant central departments formed a project team, carried out investigation and study, widely solicited opinions, and understood the situations of all parties. Besides, various regions and many departments also carried out various forms of research, providing a lot of valuable materials for thinking about and solving new party building problems. The comrades of the party have achieved some results and consensus through research and discussion, but they also deeply feel that there are still many problems to be studied and solved. Regarding this, Jiang Zemin proposed at the Fifth Plenary Session of the 15th CPC Central Committee convened in October 2000: "In order to make all comrades of the party have a deep understanding and fully and correctly grasp the requirements of the 'Three Represents', there is still a lot of work to be done, first of all, it needs to be further studied from the combination of theory and practice, in order to form a consensus and make a reply." 

On July 1, 2001, the CPC Central Committee held a grand ceremony in Beijing to celebrate the 80th anniversary of the founding of the Communist Party of China. Jiang Zemin delivered an important speech at the meeting, systematically expounding the scientific connotation of the 'Three Represents' important thought.



Jiang Zemin pointed out: Our Party must always represent the development requirements of China's advanced productive forces, that is, the Party's theories, lines, programs, policies, and all works, must strive to conform to the laws of productive force development, reflecting the requirements of constantly promoting the liberation and development of social productive forces, especially the requirements of promoting advanced productive forces. Through the development of productive forces, we must constantly improve the living standard of the people; Our Party must always represent the advancing direction of China's advanced culture, that is, the Party's theories, lines, programs, policies, and all works, must strive to reflect the requirements of developing a modern, world-oriented, future-oriented socialist culture that is national, scientific, and mass-oriented, promoting the continuous improvement of the ideological and moral quality and scientific and cultural quality of the entire nation, providing spiritual motivation and intellectual support for China's economic development and social progress; Our Party must always represent the fundamental interests of the broadest people of China, that is, the Party's theories, lines, programs, policies, and all works, must persist in taking the fundamental interests of the people as the starting point and destination, fully mobilize the enthusiasm, initiative, and creativity of the masses, on the basis of continuous social development and progress, enable the masses to continuously obtain tangible economic, political, and cultural benefits.
In the "July 1st speech", Jiang Zemin not only comprehensively elaborated the scientific connotation and basic content of the "Three Represents" important thought, but also clearly pointed out the problem of how to implement it. After the "July 1st" speech was published, the Central and various places have successively held a series of theoretical seminars to discuss the spirit of Jiang Zemin's "July 1st" speech. The Central Propaganda Department dispatched related department leaders and theoretical workers to form a "July 1st" important speech lecturing group, dispatched to central state organs and all over the country to lecture the "July 1st" speech spirit, and received good results. The Central Organization Department organized related departments to set up research groups to continue to carry out a series of special investigations around the issues of Party building in the new situation. There is a general craze for studying and practicing the "Three Represents" all over the country.
With the deepening of the study and practice activities of the "Three Represents", people have a deeper understanding of how to build the Party according to the requirements of the "Three Represents".
On May 31, 2002, Jiang Zemin delivered an important speech at the graduation ceremony of the advanced training class for provincial and ministerial cadres of the Party School of the Central Committee, elaborating on the guiding significance and spiritual substance of the "Three Represents" important thought around the situation, tasks and working principles faced by the Party in the new century and a new stage. He pointed out: To open up a new situation in the cause of socialism with Chinese characteristics, we must hold high the great banner of Deng Xiaoping Theory and fully implement the "Three Represents" requirements. The "Three Represents" inherit the same line with Marxism-Leninism, Mao Zedong Thought and Deng Xiaoping Theory, reflecting the new requirements of the development and changes of the contemporary world and China for the Party and state work. The "Three Represents" are the foundation of our Party's establishment, the basis of governance, the source of power, and a powerful theoretical weapon to strengthen and improve the Party's construction and promote the self-improvement and development of our country's social system.
He emphasized: The key to implementing the "Three Represents" requirement lies in keeping pace with the times, the core is maintaining the party's advanced nature, and the essence is insisting on serving the people. All Party comrades must firmly grasp this fundamental requirement and constantly enhance their awareness and determination to implement the "Three Represents" requirement. At the same time, he profoundly elaborated the importance of adhering to the party's ideological line and promoting the party's theoretical innovation, emphasizing the adherence to the ideological line of emancipating the mind and seeking truth from facts, promoting the spirit of keeping pace with the times, is the decisive factor for the party to maintain its advanced nature and creativity under the condition of long-term ruling. Whether our Party can always do this determines the development path and destiny of China.
This speech further unified the thoughts of the whole Party and made ample preparations for the convening of the 16th National Congress of the Party and the establishment of the guiding position of the "Three Represents" important thought in the whole Party.
From November 8 to 14, 2002, the 16th National Congress of the Communist Party of China was held in Beijing.



This congress officially established the "Three Represents" important thought as the guiding ideology of the Party. After summarizing the valuable experience accumulated by our Party over the past thirteen years, the congress report pointed out: "These experiences, in connection with the historical experience since the formation of the Party, could be summed up in that the Party must always represent the development requirements of advanced productive forces in China, represent the direction of progressive culture in China, and represent the fundamental interests of the majority of the Chinese people."

The important thought of the "Three Represents" is proposed based on the scientific judgement of the historical status of the Party. Implementing the important thought of the "Three Represents" must ensure that the whole Party maintains a progressive spirit, continuously explores new horizons in the development of Marxist theory; development must be viewed as the primary task of the Party's governance and nation-building, continuously creating a new situation in modernization construction; the most extensive and fullest mobilization of all positive factors is required, to continually add new strength to the great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation; the spirit of reform must be used to advance the construction of the Party, constantly injecting new vitality into the Party's body. In summary, the important thought of the "Three Represents" is about development and advancement. The whole Party must constantly strive to liberate new ideas, produce new developments in theory, constantly innovate in practice, implement the important thought of the "Three Represents" in all areas of socialist modernization construction, and reflect them in all aspects of Party building, so that our Party always keeps pace with the development of the times and shares a common destiny with the people.

The report, through a series of expositions, provided a highly summarized explanation of the epoch background, historical status, scientific connotation, spiritual essence, and guiding significance of the important thought of the "Three Represents". In general terms, the important thought of the "Three Represents" creatively applies Marxism-Leninism, and Mao Zedong's Thought, especially Deng Xiaoping's Theory, closely tied with new situations of the era development, new demands of the vast people of China, and the new practice of China's reform and opening up and modernization construction, etc. And they continue to explore a series of innovative theoretical achievements have been formed; on the question of how to build the Party and what kind of Party to build, we must persist in looking at ourselves in light of the requirements of the times, strengthening and improving ourselves with the spirit of reform, effectively solving the two historical issues of improving the Party's leadership level and governing level, improving its ability to resist corruption and risk, and fully advancing the new great project of Party building, forming a new understanding of Party building.

Due to the formation of a complete set of new theoretical achievements by the important thought of the "Three Represents", therefore, the Sixteenth National Congress of the Party established the important thought of the "Three Represents" along with Marxism-Leninism, Mao Zedong's Thought, and Deng Xiaoping's Theory as the guiding ideology of the Party. Establishing the important thought of the "Three Represents" as the guiding ideology of the Party is a historical decision of this congress and also a historical contribution.



Based on a series of discussions at the 16th National Congress, the Party Constitution amendment passed by the congress incorporated the important idea of the "Three Represents" along with Marxism-Leninism, Mao Zedong Thought, and Deng Xiaoping Theory, as the action guideline of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP). It clearly stipulates that the Chinese Communist Party is the vanguard of the Chinese working class, the Chinese people, and the Chinese nation, the leading core of China's socialism with Chinese characteristics, representing the development demands of China's advanced productive forces, the direction of China's advanced culture, and the fundamental interests of the largest number of people. The CCP adopts Marxism-Leninism, Mao Zedong Thought, Deng Xiaoping Theory, and the "Three Represents" as its action guideline. The "Three Represents" is the guiding ideology that the party must uphold for a long time. 

Just as the Seventh National Congress of the Party established Mao Zedong Thought as the party's guiding ideology and the 15th National Congress established Deng Xiaoping Theory as the party's guiding ideology, which played an extremely important role in promoting the victorious development of China's revolution and construction. The 16th National Congress established the "Three Represents" as the party's guiding ideology, this will also have an extremely important role in promoting the new situation of socialism with Chinese characteristics.

After the "Three Represents" important ideology was included in the Party Constitution at the Sixteenth Congress, on March 14, 2004, the Second Session of the Tenth National People's Congress passed the "Amendment to the Constitution of the People's Republic of China," which incorporated the "Three Represents" important ideology into the constitution, establishing its guiding position in our country's political and social life. This is of great significance to our Party and country. In the new century and new stage, the Chinese Communist Party will hold high the banner of Deng Xiaoping Theory and the "Three Represents" important thought, stick to the road of socialism with Chinese characteristics, and lead the people to strive for the comprehensive construction of a well-off society and the basic realization of modernization.

2. The historical significance of the "Three Represents" important ideology as the guiding ideology of the party

The establishment of the guiding position of the "Three Represents" important thought in the entire Party, has an extremely significant historical significance in the development history of Marxism, especially in the development history of scientific socialism.

First, Marxism has been advanced to a new height in the era and theory. The "Three Represents" important thought is the product of China's reform and opening up and socialist modernization. This important thought answers the questions of "what is socialism and how to build socialism" and creatively answers the questions of "what kind of party to build and how to build the party" from the perspective of the development of China and the world. It greatly enriches the theoretical treasury of Marxism and opens up a new realm of Marxist theory development. 

Second, Marxism is endowed with a new era connotation. The "Three Represents" important thought is an inheritance and development of Marxism-Leninism, Mao Zedong Thought and Deng Xiaoping Theory. This important thought creatively combines the party's construction with the development changes of today's world, the development trends of contemporary China, the self-improvement and development of our socialist system, and the realization of the grand goal of socialism with Chinese characteristics, and various tasks, endowing the party's nature, purpose, guiding thought, historical mission with distinct era content and characteristics.

Third, it has creatively inherited and developed the basic viewpoints of Marxism.



The "Three Represents" important thought innovatively develops the Marxist view that human society's progress is ultimately determined by productive forces, guided by advanced culture, and driven by the masses in the understanding of the party's governing laws, socialist construction laws, and human social development laws. These ideas uncover that socialism with Chinese characteristics is the organic unity of socialist market economy, socialist democratic politics, and socialist advanced culture. It is a society where socialist material civilization, spiritual civilization, and political civilization are comprehensively developed; it profoundly explains the intrinsic link between the socialist modernization led by the Chinese Communist Party, China's social progress and development, and the great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation. These main viewpoints, all based on the inheritance of existing Marxist understanding, innovatively develop the basic theory of Marxism.
In conclusion, the important thought of "Three Represents" is closely integrated with new era conditions, maintains and develops Marxism with tremendous theoretical courage and scientific spirit, imbues Marxism with new vitality, and once again forcefully proves that the basic principles of Marxism remain a sharp ideological weapon for us to correctly understand and transform the world and promote the continuous advancement of social practice.

Chapter 11: The proposal for a comprehensive construction of a well-off society and the scientific outlook on development
Under the guidance of Deng Xiaoping's theory and the important thought of "Three Represents," China's economic and social development and various aspects of work have achieved significant progress. By the end of the 20th century, China has initially established a new socialist market system, and people's living standards overall have reached a well-off level. On this basis, the party central committee further proposed a new goal of completely constructing a well-off society based on the domestic and international situation and the basic conditions of China's economic and social development. For better guiding the comprehensive construction of a well-off society, and smoothly advancing China's economic and social development, the Chinese Communist Party timely proposed the scientific development outlook after entering the new century. With the goal of comprehensively constructing a well-off society and guided by the scientific development outlook, China's society has embarked on a new historical journey of socialist modernization construction.
I. The new goal of a comprehensive construction of a well-off society and the reform program for improving the market economy
Since the 14th National Congress of the Communist Party in 1992, the party has been increasing efforts to get rid of the old and establish the new, according to the reform goal of establishing a socialist market economy system. This has led to important breakthroughs in many areas of reform, promoting a fundamental transformation from the traditional planned economy system to the socialist market economy system. By the year 2000, a socialist market economy system was initially established, and people's lives had basically reached a state of being well-off.
1. Initial establishment of the socialist market economy system and overall achievement of a well-off state
The initial establishment of the socialist market economy system mainly manifested in the following aspects: the ownership structure is becoming increasingly diversified; the micro-dynamics of the national economy are strengthening; the market system is basically formed; the production factor market is taking shape; exploration of the new macro-control system is active; reform in the income distribution sector is deepening; the construction of the social security system is steadily advancing; the pace of government institution reform and function conversion is accelerating. The deepening of reforms significantly increased the marketization level of the national economy and the fundamental role of market allocation of resources has been gradually strengthening. By the end of 2000, China had initially established a socialist market economy system and became a developing market economy country. This is a fundamental change in China's economic system over the two decades of reform and opening up, especially since the 14th party congress. This fundamental change has brought profound influence not only to the institutional environment of China's economic development but also to the social life and ideological concepts of the Chinese people. It is of decisive significance for China's reform and construction, as well as for the development and innovation of the party's theory.
While judging that China has basically established a socialist market economy system, our party also made another judgment on a macro level: our country has overall achieved a state of "well-off", and based on this, it made a new plan for the development goals of the new century.



The concept of "Xiaokang" has gone through a historical process in its application in our society in the new era. As early as 1979, Deng Xiaoping proposed the concept of "Xiaokang", and envisioned achieving the goal of "Xiaokang" by the end of the 20th century. Since then, he has repeatedly interpreted the idea of "Xiaokang" from different perspectives, enriching its connotations.

In December 1990, the Seventh Plenary Session of the 13th CCP Central Committee passed the "Proposal on Formulating the Ten-Year Plan for National Economic and Social Development and the Eighth Five-Year Plan", stating "people's lives have gone from subsistence to moderate prosperity. Living materials are more abundant, the consumption structure is becoming reasonable, living conditions have noticeably improved, cultural life is further enriched, health standards continue to rise, and social service facilities are continuously improving". These were mainly planned from the perspective of life quality. In 1991, National Bureau of Statistics and 12 other departments proposed 16 indicators of Xiaokang level, including per capita GDP, Engel's coefficient, per capita disposable income of urban residents, and net income per capita of farmers. According to this standard, by the year 2000, people's life in China overall reached Xiaokang level. 

In 1995, at the Fifth Plenary Session of the 14th CCP Central Committee, in the "Suggestions on Formulating the 'Ninth Five-Year' Plan and the 2010 Long-Term Goals for National Economic and Social Development," it was clearly stated that the deadline for achieving "Xiaokang" would be by the year 2000. By this time, China planned to "basically eliminate poverty and bring people's living standard to Xiaokang level". Generally speaking, the definition of a Xiaokang lifestyle, similar to the universally accepted definition of quality of life, includes material living conditions—food, clothing, housing, transportation, etc.; environmental conditions—including air, traffic, water quality, greening, etc.; and social environmental conditions—including social order, sense of security, social morals, and ethics.

After years of development through reform and opening up, by 2000, overall achievement of "Xiaokang" and the realization of the second strategic goal of socialist modernization were consolidated. In this context, the Fifth Plenary Session of the 15th CCP Central Committee clearly declared in 2000 that China has generally achieved "Xiaokang", "At the beginning of the new century, China is about to enter a new phase of development, comprehensively building a Xiaokang society, and accelerating the advancement of socialist modernization". "The implementation of the third strategic plan has begun. This is a new milestone in the history of Chinese nation’s development." According to the suggestions of the Fifth Plenary Session, the State Council formulated the "Outline of the Tenth Five-Year Plan for National Economic and Social Development," which was approved at the Fourth Session of the Ninth National People's Congress in March 2001. This outline planned the blueprint for economic and social development for the first five years of the new century, defined the guiding principles and main tasks, and became the action program for people of all ethnic groups across the country to strive together at the beginning of the new century. With the implementation of the "Eleventh Five-Year" Plan, China entered a new phase of development: fully building a Xiaokang society and speeding up the process of socialist modernization.

By the end of the 20th century, people's lives in general had achieved Xiaokang, "this is a new milestone in the history of China’s national development". This also laid a solid foundation for further development in the new century.

2. The 16th National Congress of the Communist Party of China and the Establishment of the Goal of Fully Building a Xiaokang Society

Shortly after entering the new century, the 16th National Congress of the Communist Party of China was held in Beijing from November 8 to 14, 2002.




The Congress adopted the report titled "Comprehensively Building a Well-off Society and Creating a New Situation in the Cause of Socialism with Chinese Characteristics," presented by Jiang Zemin on behalf of the 15th Central Committee. It also passed the "Amendment to the Constitution of the Communist Party of China" and the work report of the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection. It elected the new Central Committee and the new Central Commission for Discipline Inspection, which consists of 198 Central Committee members and 158 alternate members.

The theme of this congress is: To hold high the great banner of Deng Xiaoping Theory, comprehensively implement the important thought of the "Three Represents," carry forward with the times, comprehensively build a well-off society, accelerate the modernization of socialism, and strive to create a new situation for socialism with Chinese characteristics.

The entire content of the 16th National Congress report revolves around this theme and clearly signals to the world that the banner held high by the Chinese Communist Party in the new century and the new stage is the banner of Marxism-Leninism, Mao Zedong Thought, Deng Xiaoping Theory, and the important thought of the "Three Represents." The road that the Chinese Communist Party must take is the road of socialism with Chinese characteristics that has been persisted and developed by the Party Central Committee with Jiang Zemin at its core since Deng Xiaoping pioneered it. 

The report comprehensively reviewed the 13-year struggle and basic experience since the 15th National Congress, especially since the 4th Plenary Session of the 13th Central Committee in 1989. The report pointed out that this 13-year period is recognized as a time when China's overall national strength has greatly improved, the people have received the most benefits, social stability has been maintained, and the national cohesion has been significantly enhanced. 

The 16th National Congress of the Party determined the goal of striving for a comprehensive well-off society based on the requirement of comprehensively creating a new situation in the cause of socialism with Chinese characteristics. This is done on the basis of a profound analysis of the new situation and new tasks faced by the party and the country.



On November 8, Jiang Zemin clearly stated in his report at the 16th National Congress of the Party: According to the development goals proposed by the 15th National Congress, to the year 2010, the 100th anniversary of the founding of the Party, and the 100th anniversary of the founding of New China, "We should, in the first two decades of this century, concentrate our efforts to comprehensively build a more advanced well-off society benefiting billions of people, making the economy more developed, democracy more robust, science and education more progressive, culture more prosperous, society more harmonious, and people's lives richer. This is the necessary development stage for achieving the strategic goal of the third step of modernization construction, and also the key stage of improving the socialist market economy system and expanding opening up. After the construction of this phase, after continuing to struggle for several decades, we should basically achieve modernization by the mid-21st century, making our country a wealthy, democratic, civilized socialist country".

Into 2020, China's future will present the following bright prospects:
(1) On the basis of optimizing the structure and improving benefits, the GDP by 2020 strives to be doubled from 2000, and the overall national strength and international competitiveness have significantly increased. Basic industrialization has been realized, a complete socialist market economy system has been built, and a more dynamic and open economic system has emerged. The proportion of urban population has greatly increased, the trends of difference between workers and peasants, urban and rural areas, and regions have been gradually reversed. Social security systems are relatively complete, social employment is relatively sufficient, family wealth generally increases, and people live a richer life.
(2) Socialist democracy has been further perfected, socialist legal system has been further perfected, and the basic strategy of ruling the country by law has been fully implemented, and people's political, economic and cultural rights have been practically respected and guaranteed. Grassroots democracy has become more complete, social order is good, and people live and work in peace.
(3) The ideological, moral, scientific, and cultural qualities and health qualities of the whole nation have risen significantly, and have formed a relatively complete modern national educational system, technological and cultural innovation system, and nationwide fitness and health system. People enjoy the opportunity to receive a good education, basic universal secondary education is achieved, and illiteracy is eliminated. A learning society with lifelong learning for everyone has been established, promoting the all-round development of humans.
(4) The ability for sustainable development continues to increase, the ecological environment improves, the effectiveness of resource utilization is greatly increased, promotes harmony between man and nature, and promotes the entire society towards the civilized development path of prosperous production, rich life, and good ecology.
The goal of all-round construction of a well-off society determined by the 16th Party Congress, compared with the past, although only adds the term "all-round" in expression, its implications are richer and its significance is more profound. The phrase "all-round construction of a well-off society" refers to the low level, incomplete, and unbalanced development of a well-off state that China reached at the end of the 20th century. Therefore, the construction of an all-round well-off society from its basic implications to the development indicators, can be summarized into "higher level", "more extensive benefits", and "more coordinated development".
The goal of fully constructing a well-off society set by the 16th National Congress is the goal of all-round development of the economy, politics, culture, and society with Chinese characteristics, and it further enriches and develops the strategic ideas of the three steps of socialist modernization construction in China.



Firstly, the comprehensive construction of a moderately prosperous society has elevated our country's conception of social development to a new height. Development is the primary task of the Chinese Communist Party in governing and rejuvenating the country; from ensuring that people's basic needs are met to establishing a moderately prosperous society, this is a leapfrog progression that the party, leading the Chinese people, has achieved in development issues. But even after achieving this leap-forward development, there still exist many contradictions and issues in our country that need further resolution, such as the relative backwardness in productivity and technologies, education, and the pressure we still face from developed countries owning superior advantages in the economic, technological, and other areas. The economic system and other management systems are still not perfect, the dual urban-rural economic structure has not changed, and the trend of widening regional disparity has not entirely reversed; there remains a portion of the population that needs to be lifted out of poverty, the total population continues to grow, the proportion of the elderly population is rising, and the pressure on employment and social security is increasing; problems with natural resources, ecological environment, and contradictions between economic and social development are becoming increasingly prominent; there are some unignorable issues in cultural construction, democratic rule of law, ideological, and moral construction, etc. All of these require us to take everything into consideration and address them comprehensively. The proposal of the idea and goal of comprehensively building a moderately prosperous society indicates that the Chinese Communist Party's high-level decision-makers have fully recognized this. Therefore, it has lifted our country's socialist modernization from the comprehensive development of economy, politics, culture, and society, to a new level of comprehension.

Secondly, the comprehensive construction of a moderately prosperous society extends the perspective of consolidating and developing socialism from the angle of productive forces to that of people’s livelihood. The report of the 16th National Congress of the party, while summarizing the basic experiences of the past thirteen years, clearly mentioned the need to "solve problems in the course of development with developmental methods". Authors of the Marxist classics have long pointed out incisively that the reason why socialism is superior to capitalism lies in its ability to create higher social productive forces than the latter. This conclusion is beyond doubt. However, judging from the historical experiences both at home and abroad since the 1990s, people's identification with a country, a party, or a society is not only reflected in the social productive forces, but also in whether the living standards and quality of life of the people can be continuously improved, and whether the social environment and cultural atmosphere can be continuously optimized. The proposal and formulation of the idea and goal of comprehensively building a moderately prosperous society are a new understanding and development in Marxism's idea of liberating and developing social productive forces.

Thirdly, the comprehensive construction of a moderately prosperous society concretely embodies the practical requirements of the "three represents" important thought. The comprehensive construction of a moderately prosperous society essentially means continuously liberating and developing social productive forces, continuously building advanced socialist culture, continuously improving the living standard and quality of the people, and achieving comprehensive development of politics, economy, culture, and society. Implementing the "three represents" important thought, the primary task is development, which reflects advanced productive forces, advanced culture, and the fundamental interests of the majority of the people. From the perspective of promoting social development, the implementation of the "three represents" important thought and the comprehensive construction of a moderately prosperous society have historical and logical unity.

Fourth, the comprehensive construction of a moderately prosperous society is an action program that fully embodies the spirit of the times in the new century. Drafting a struggle aim and action program that meet the requirements of the times and reflect the aspirations of the people is key whether a party can mobilize all positive factors to struggle together for common aims. From a historical perspective, at different historical periods, the party has proposed inspirational objectives based on changes in the era and social development needs, rallying the broad masses around itself, thus making the revolution, construction, and reform continuously proceed from one victory to another. The fighting aim of comprehensively building a moderately prosperous society proposed by the 16th National Congress of the party is undoubtedly an aim of struggle that is in line with national conditions, conforms to the times, represents the fundamental interests of the people, reflects the needs of the times, is realistic, and is full of innovative spirit. Therefore, it forms an action program for continuing to advance the cause of socialist modernization in our country in the new century.



3. Further Improving the Program for Reforming the Socialist Market Economy System 

The development of a socialist market economy is a significant innovation of the Chinese Communist Party in Marxist economic theory. According to the reform direction of the socialist market economy, China has not only gradually transitioned from a planned economy system to a socialist market economy system but also gradually enriched and developed the reform program of the socialist market economy through practical exploration.

After the Third Plenum of the Eleventh Central Committee, China began to carry out reform and opening up. After more than a decade of practical exploration and theoretical summarization, the relationship between planning and market has gradually become clear, laying the foundation for the establishment of the reform goal of the socialist market economy system. The reform goal of the socialist market economy system was established at the Fourteenth Party Congress in 1992. In 1993, the "Decision on Some Issues Concerning Establishing the Socialist Market Economy System" passed by the Third Plenary Session of the Fourteenth Central Committee of the Party preliminarily formulated China's overall plan for reforming the socialist market economy system, and initially outlined its basic content and framework, providing an action program for China's economic system reform in the 1990s. The subsequent Fifteenth and Sixteenth sessions deepened the Party's understanding of the socialist market economy based on the summary of practical experience, and initially established the socialist market economy system, making significant progress in China's economic system reform.

Firstly, a pattern of public ownership being dominant with various forms of ownership economy developing together has basically formed. Through years of adjustment and improvement of the ownership structure, China's ownership structure has become increasingly reasonable. The realization form of public ownership has become more diversified, the entire state-owned economy's layout is becoming reasonable, and by 2000, most state-owned large and medium-sized enterprises have initially established a modern enterprise system. Urban and rural collective economies have gained new vitality in reform and restructuring. Some enterprises with a good foundation have achieved new development by introducing market mechanisms; individual, private, joint venture, foreign-funded and other non-public economies have shown vigorous vitality from weak to strong; stock-based and mixed-ownership economies have increasingly become important types of economy under state policy encouragement. With market-oriented reform and adjustment of the ownership structure, the distribution system of distribution mainly according to work supplemented by various distribution ways has been continuously improved, the incentive mechanism has been gradually perfected, and labor, capital, technology, management, and other production elements participate in the distribution according to contribution.

Secondly, the socialist market economy system has initially been established. With the establishment of basic economic systems and the continuous development of various market elements, the micro-foundation of the socialist market economy system has gradually formed. With the further development of the commodity market, the pace of development of the capital, labor, technology, real estate, and other markets has also accelerated, and the basic role of the market in resource allocation has gradually strengthened. While promoting market reforms, the country has also comprehensively promoted the reform of the macroeconomic management system, the country's ability to regulate the economy has continuously improved, and through the cooperation of national planning, fiscal policies, monetary policies and various regulatory measures, the policy system of macro control has been gradually improved.

Thirdly, the level of China's social and economic development has improved significantly. China has moved from the initial stage of industrialization to the middle stage. The mode of economic growth has gradually shifted from extensive to intensive, and the quality of the economy has greatly improved along with the expansion of the total economy..



The overall economy and total import-export trade of our country have entered the world's front ranks. There have been two historic leaps in the quality of people's lives. In the 1980s, the basic issue of feeding the population was solved, and in the 1990s we have gone from just feeding people to bringing about a moderately prosperous society. The problem of securing food, which has vexed the Chinese for thousands of years, has been fundamentally resolved under the leadership of the Communist Party of China. The dream of living a moderately prosperous life, dreamt by our ancestors, is now becoming a reality. With the rapid growth of the economy and the continuous progress of society, achievements in education, science, culture, population, environment and other social undertakings have been historic and have started to embark on a path of sustainable development and overall societal progress. This is a great victory for the socialist system and a new milestone in the history of the Chinese nation.

Fourth, the social security system has been initially established and is continuously improving, with pension, unemployment, and medical insurance for urban workers as its main components. The sources of social security funds are diversified, social management services are provided, and the three 'guarantee lines' of the basic livelihood security system for laid-off workers from state-owned enterprises, the unemployment insurance system, and the minimum living security system for urban residents are continuously perfected, playing an important role in maintaining social stability.

Through a series of reforms over a considerable period of time, China's economy and society have achieved tremendous progress under market conditions. It can be said that these achievements are attracting worldwide attention. However, we should also see that, while achieving these accomplishments, some long-term and deep-seated contradictions have not fundamentally resolved, and new conflicts and issues have accumulated in economic and social fields. Notably, problems include an unreasonable economic structure, enduring urban-rural and regional development gaps, slow income growth for farmers, increasing numbers of laid-off workers, prominent employment problems, intensifying resource and environmental pressures, lack of overall economic competitiveness, etc. The reasons for these problems are multifaceted, an important one being that China's socialist market economic system is not perfect enough, and in many ways, it can't adapt to the development of productivity, especially advanced productivity.

Reform is a powerful driving force for economic development and social progress. To adapt to the international environment of economic globalization and accelerating technological progress, and to the new situation of comprehensively building a moderately prosperous society, in October 2003, the Third Plenary Session of the 16th Central Committee of the Party adopted the 'Decision on Some Issues for Improving the Socialist Market Economic System' (hereinafter 'Decision'), focusing on important systemic issues that need to be solved in the current and future period, setting out reform goals and tasks, and making decisions and deployments.

First, on the main goal of improving the socialist market economic system. The 'Decision' proposes to coordinate urban-rural development, regional development, economic-social development, human-nature harmonious development, domestic development and opening-up, further play the fundamental role of the market in resource allocation, enhance enterprise vitality and competitiveness, improve the national macro-control system, improve the government's social management and public service functions, and provide a strong systemic guarantee for the comprehensive construction of a moderately prosperous society.

Second, on the primary task of reforming the socialist market economic system...



The "Decision" clearly states: to improve the basic economic system where public ownership is dominant and various forms of ownership develop together; to establish a system conducive to gradually changing the dual urban-rural economic structure; to form a mechanism to promote the coordinated development of regional economy; to build a unified, open, competitive and orderly modern market economy system; to perfect the macro-control system, administrative management system and economic legal system; to improve the employment, income distribution and social security systems; to establish a mechanism to promote the sustainable development of economy and society.
Third, regarding the guiding ideology and principles of deepening the reform of the socialist market economy system. The "Decision" clearly states: to adhere to Deng Xiaoping Theory and the "Three Represents" important thought as the guide, to implement the Party's basic line, basic program, basic experience, to fully implement the spirit of the Sixteenth National Congress, to liberate thoughts, seek truth from facts, and keep pace with the times. To persist in the reform direction of the socialist market economy, pay attention to institutional construction and system innovation. To persist in respecting the pioneering spirit of the masses, and fully exert the positivity of both the central and local levels. To persist in handling the relationship between reform, development, and stability correctly, advance reform with focus and steps. To insist on overall planning and consideration, coordinate various interest relationships in the process of reform. To insist on people-oriented principle, establish a comprehensive, coordinated, sustainable development concept, and promote the all-round development of economy, society and people. Looking at the guiding ideology of deepening the reform of the socialist market economy from this "Decision" compared to the "Decision of the CPC Central Committee on Some Issues Concerning the Establishment of a Socialist Market Economy System" in 1993, it integrates the latest spirit of the Party's creative understanding of Marxist ideology, reflecting the Party's guiding ideology keeping pace with the times.
The "Decision" reflects the Party's latest understanding of China's economic and social development situation entering the 21st century, with distinctive inheritance and continuity, and is a historical document connecting the past and opening up the future. It systematically enriches the content that could not be unfolded due to insufficient time or immature conditions ten years ago, and is a programmatic document for improving the socialist market economy in the new century. It deepens the program of socialist market economy reform from three major aspects.
First, it further developed Marxist economic theory. Since the Third Plenary Session of the Eleventh Central Committee, especially since the Fourteenth National Congress of the Party and its Third Plenary Session, with the gradual establishment and improvement of the socialist market economy system, some new features have emerged in the reform process: China's reform is no longer the "crossing the river by feeling the stones" of the 1980s, but is carried out under the guidance of the overall reform plan; the topics for discussion by the leadership and the theoretical circle have shifted more from "whether to reform" to "how to reform". The theory of socialist market economy has been continuously developed and improved in the deepening of reform practice and theoretical debates.
After transiting economic operations into the market system, and having achieved basic consensus within and outside the party, the focus of theoretical exploration began to turn into the field of ownership. Therefore, differences of opinions were expressed in the form of whether the reform surnames "public" or "private". The fifteenth party congress answered this question in a distinct manner. In terms of recognizing the status of the non-public economy, the Fifteenth Party Congress Report, based on the basic national conditions of the primary stage of socialism, broke through the previous judgments of "important supplement" and "beneficial supplement" for the status of the non-public economy, considered that public ownership with various forms of ownership developing together is a "basic economic system" in the primary stage of socialism in our country, and identified that the non-public economy is an "important component" of the socialist market economy.



In terms of understanding the public ownership economy, the report emphasizes that the public ownership economy not only includes state-owned economy and collective economy, but also includes the state-owned and collective components in the mixed ownership economy; The implementation forms of public ownership should be diversified, and all management methods and organizational forms that reflect the laws of socialized production can be boldly utilized, striving to find implementation forms of public ownership that can greatly promote the development of productive forces. In terms of understanding the state-owned economy, the report believes that the leading role of the state-owned economy refers to controlling the lifeline of the national economy, but this is in terms of the whole country; The leadership role of the state-owned economy is mainly reflected in control and efforts should be made to strategically adjust the layout of the state-owned economy. In the 15th National Congress of the Communist Party of China, the theory of socialist market economy was placed under the theoretical background of the primary stage of socialism, clearly answering the question of the reform "surname" and "private" "public", fundamentally developing the theory of socialist market economy. 

In the mid-to-late 1990s, the strategic goal of the second step of China's modernization construction was basically achieved. At the beginning of the new century, the third step of the strategic goal was timely launched, from top to bottom, people were discussing the coexistence of the "strategic opportunity period" and the "period of prominent contradictions". The new Central leadership team elected by the 16th National Congress of the Communist Party of China, in response to new situations and tasks, put forward the concept of scientific development that "people-oriented" and "comprehensive, coordinated, and sustainable" at the Third Plenary Session of the Sixteenth Central Committee, and made a resolution on several issues concerning perfecting the socialist market economic system. In the "Decision on Several Issues Concerning Perfecting the Socialist Market Economic System", the Party also innovated the theory of socialist market economy, mainly reflected in the great breakthroughs in the theory of ownership and property rights. The "Decision" for the first time proposed that "we should vigorously develop the mixed ownership economy of state-owned capital, collective capital and non-public capital, realize the diversification of investment subjects, and make the stock system the main form of public ownership". Before that, it was only suggested that the shareholding system is a form of implementation. The proposition of the 16th National Congress report is to "actively promote shareholding and develop mixed ownership economy." The major change in this proposition in the "Decision" will greatly accelerate the diversification of state-owned enterprises and create opportunities for more private enterprises and foreign businesses to invest in state-owned shareholding companies. In terms of property rights theory, the "Decision" for the first time proposed that "property rights are the core and main content of ownership, including all kinds of property rights such as property rights, creditor's rights, stock rights, and intellectual property rights." The reform of enterprises has developed from establishing modern enterprise system to modern property rights system, indicating that both the theory and practice of China's enterprise reform have entered a new stage.

Secondly, it deepened and perfected the connotation of the goal of reforming the socialist market economy. The Third Plenary Session of the 16th Central Committee of the Communist Party stated in the "Decision": According to the requirements of overall urban and rural development, overall regional development, overall economic and social development, overall harmony between man and nature, and overall domestic development and external opening, it is necessary to play a more significant basic role of the market in resource allocation, enhance the vitality and competitiveness of enterprises, improve state macro-control, improve government social management and public service functions, and provide institutional guarantee for the building of a moderately prosperous society in an all-round way. According to this statement in the "Decision", it deepened and perfected the connotation of the goal of the socialist market economy reform from three aspects. The first is to establish the "Five Overall Planning" as the basis for deepening the reform. This is a very important reform idea put forward by our party based on the summary of the reform history experience since the Third Plenary Session of the 11th Central Committee. It is a distinct feature of the reform goal proposed in this "Decision". The second is to reflect the organic unity of the stage and continuity in China's economic system reform. The Third Plenary Session of the 14th Central Committee put forward the reform goal of establishing a socialist market economy system, that is, the basic role of the market under macro-control. After 10 years of hard practice and bold exploration, the goal of the reform has been basically achieved.



On this basis, the "Decision" has further added the basic connotations of expanding the fundamental role of the market, enhancing the vitality and competitiveness of enterprises, improving the national macro-control system, and strengthening the government's public service functions. Thus, it is combined with the basic connotation of developing a socialist market economy proposed by the Third Plenary Session of the Fourteenth Central Committee of the Party, which together constitute the main connotation of the reform goal of deepening the socialist market economy system. This not only enriches the connotation of the reform goals of the socialist market economic system but also reflects the organic unity of the stage and continuity of China's economic system reform. The third is the integration of system guarantee content. From the basic view of Marxism, society is an open system, there is high interdependence between urban and rural areas, regions, humans, and nature, and the economy is inseparable from society, with internal conditions and external environments interrelated. Therefore, reform must analyze problems from multiple perspectives such as economy and society, urban and rural, human and nature, domestic and international, developed and underdeveloped regions, propose reform goals, in order to more effectively promote the liberation and development of productive forces.

Third, it makes the historical task of deepening the reform of the socialist market economy more specific and clear. The "Decision" of the Third Plenary Session of the Sixteenth Central Committee of the Party proposed seven tasks for further deepening the reform: ① perfecting the basic economic system with public ownership as the main body and various forms of ownership developing together; ② Establishing a system conducive to gradually changing the dual economic structure of urban and rural areas; ③ forming a mechanism for promoting regional economic coordinated development; ④ building a unified, open, competitive, and orderly modern market system; ⑤ improving the macro-control system, administrative management system, and economic legal system; ⑥ improving the employment, income distribution, and social security system; ⑦ establishing a mechanism to promote sustainable economic and social development. The Third Plenary Session of the Fourteenth Central Committee of the Party proposed to establish a socialist market economic system, mainly proposing reform tasks in the construction of state-owned enterprise market systems, macro-control systems, distribution systems, and social security systems. From the historical conditions at that time, the Third Plenary Session of the Fourteenth Central Committee emphasized the integrity of the market system when determining the tasks of reform. The tasks proposed by the "Decision" of the Third Plenary Session of the Sixteenth Central Committee are based on the "Decision on Several Issues Concerning the Establishment of a Socialist Market Economic System" of the Third Plenary Session of the Fourteenth Central Committee, which further strengthens the practical relevance, thereby making the historical tasks of economic reform more clear and specific. From the current situation, if issues such as the effective implementation form of public ownership, orderly market competition, and transformation of government public functions cannot be resolved, China's economy will not be able to sustain healthy and rapid development, industries will not be able to form strong competitiveness, and it will be difficult to maintain the good situation of opening up to the outside world; if it cannot be guaranteed from system and mechanism, gradually solving problems such as urban-rural gap, regional disparities, and disharmony between humans and nature, it is difficult to maintain long-term social stability, and it is difficult to achieve the grand goal of comprehensively building a well-off society. Aiming at these practical problems, the "Decision" proposed seven clear and specific reform tasks, the fundamental purpose of which is to eliminate the institutional obstacles to the development of productive forces and provide strong institutional guarantees for the comprehensive construction of a well-off society.

The above-mentioned historical process fully reflects the development of China's reform practices and reflects our party's exploration of integrating the basic principles of Marxism with the practice of China's reform and opening up, and reflects our party's deepening understanding of the laws of developed socialist market economies.

II. The new situation of deepening reform and development and the proposal of the Scientific Development Concept 

After entering the new stage of the new century, China's economic and social development has entered a critical period. In the face of the complex situation faced by China in the critical period, the Central Party led by Hu Jintao inherits the beneficial ideas of predecessors, summarizes the historical experience of many years, scientifically analyze the current situation, and timely proposed the concept of Scientific Development.

1. The situation and problems China faces during the critical period of reform and development 

The proposal of the concept of Scientific Development is not accidental. It is the inevitable requirement of the development of international and domestic situations and is the latest summary of world development thoughts.



Looking at the international situation, the world today is characterized by the trends of peace, development, and cooperation. The trend of global multipolarization and economic globalization continues to develop profoundly, countries increasingly depend on each other, major power relations have changed significantly, and the balance of world power continues to shift. Technological advancement is changing rapidly; technology innovation and diffusion are accelerating. The international restructuring of industries and the transfer of production elements are speeding up, and regional economic integration is thriving. The world economy is in a new round of recovery and growth. In this tide of world development, the international community generally has positive expectations for the development prospects of our country. They appreciate the role and influence of our country, and the willingness to cooperate with us is generally strengthened. This is the favorable aspect for our country's development. But at the same time, we must soberly see that the development of our country also faces some major challenges: hegemonism and power politics still exist, the unstable and uncertain factors affecting world peace and development are increasing, the world economic development imbalance is worsening, the international competition around resources, markets, technology, and talent is becoming increasingly intense, trade barriers and trade frictions are noticeably increasing, the pressure of developed countries' superiority in the economy and technology will exist for a long time. The environment we face will still be generally conducive to our country's development, but unfavorable factors may also increase. Faced with such an environment, we must put China's development in the perspective of the world's overall situation, exploit advantages and avoid drawbacks, seize opportunities, respond to challenges, and accelerate development, and strive for the initiative in development.

Looking at the domestic situation, after the unremitting efforts since the founding of the People's Republic of China, especially since the reform and opening up, our country has achieved remarkable development achievements. Major profound changes have taken place from the productive forces to the relations of production, from the economic foundation to the superstructure. By 2000, we had successfully realized the second-step development goal of the "three-step" strategy of modernization construction, and people's lives had generally reached a well-off level. The 16th National Congress put forward a grand goal to build a well-off society in all respects benefiting billions of people in the first 20 years of the 21st century. This phase of development is directly linked to the goal of enhancing socialism and expanding foreign trade. The prominent feature and main problem during this period are that China's economy and society have entered a new stage of development. China's industrialization and urbanization processes have accelerated, and the adjustment of economic structure has sped up; the level of marketization in the economy has rapidly increased, deepening reforms have further tapped into deep-seated contradictions and problems, and system innovation has entered a crucial stage; the imbalance in regional development, the uncoordinated development of economy and society, the task of narrowing the gap in regional development and promoting coordinated development of economy and society has become more difficult; China's economic dependence on the outside world has been increasing, and the impact of the world economy on China's development has noticeably deepened; People's material and cultural needs are constantly upgrading and becoming more diversified, social interest relations are becoming more diverse and complex, and the difficulty of balancing various interests is increasing; the awareness of democracy and law among the people is constantly enhancing, the enthusiasm for political participation is constantly improving, new requirements have been put forward in developing socialist democracy and implementing the basic strategy of ruling the country according to law; channels and level of people's exposure to various ideological influences have noticeably increased, and the independence, selectivity, and variability of ideological activities have significantly enhanced.   

Lastly, looking at world experience, reaching a per capita GDP of 1,000 dollars in economic development is a significant mark. It signifies that economic development has stepped up to a new level, approaching an important juncture.



When a nation exceeds a per capita GDP of $1000, two outcomes or results may occur: some may skyrocket and progress, while others may stagnate and fail to move forward. Only appropriate responses can help accelerate growth. Some East Asian nations and regions effectively managed various relationships during this period, leading to consistent fast growth for many years. Some countries in Latin America, however, took inappropriate measures and fell into turbulence and stagnation, getting stuck in what we call the "Latin American Trap." By 2003, China's GDP per capita exceeded $1000. According to internationally recognized standards, China has risen from the low-income nations group. This marks a great milestone in the development history of the Chinese nation and creates a new starting point for pushing forward socialist modernization more vigorously. After China's socio-economic development reached this new starting point, discussions emerged about how China could learn from the successful experiences of other countries and avoid their failures. These became hot topics in the world of intellectual and theoretical discussion, as well as issues that the top leadership of the Chinese Communist Party had to consider.

2. The Proposal of Scientific Development Concept

The Scientific Development Concept launched by the Party Central Committee, led by Hu Jintao as General Secretary, expounds on the ideology of "development" from Marxism-Leninism, Mao Zedong Thought, Deng Xiaoping Theory, and the "Three Represents" essential thought. This concept drew on the developmental achievements and practices from various countries around the world, in-depth insight into the characteristics of China’s developmental stages, and summarized the long-term experiences of China's development.

As early as March 1999, Hu Jintao proposed during the deliberation of the Fujian delegation at the second session of the Ninth National People's Congress that "we must firmly establish the thought that development is an absolute principle and establish a scientific development perspective." On April 15, 2003, during his inspection tour in Guangdong, Hu Jintao explicitly proposed the idea of persisting in a comprehensive development view. On July 28, at a national conference for the prevention and treatment of SARS, he pointed out, "Through fighting SARS, we have recognized more profoundly than ever that China's economic development and social development, urban development, and rural development are not well coordinated... we need to attach great importance to existing problems and resolve them with practical measures, making the fight against SARS an important opportunity to improve our work and better promote our cause."

In promoting development, we should not only focus on economic indicators but also pay attention to human, resource, and environmental indicators. We should not only increase the investment in promoting economic growth but also enhance the funding for social development and the protection of resources and the environment. In October, the Third Plenary Session of the Sixteenth Central Committee of the Party officially adopted "Adhere to people-oriented, establish a comprehensive, coordinated, and sustainable development perspective, and promote the comprehensive development of the economy, society, and people" as guidance and principles for deepening economic system reform. On October 14, Hu Jintao further proposed at the second full meeting of the Third Plenary Session of the Sixteenth Central Committee, "Establishing and implementing the scientific development concept of comprehensive, coordinated, and sustainable development is significant to our persistence that development is an absolute principle. 

To establish and implement the scientific development view is the summary of the experiences from more than 20 years of reform and opening up, an important lesson from our victory over SARS, as well as an urgent requirement for promoting a comprehensive build of a well-off society... Such a development concept conforms to the objective law of social development." Here, the concept of people-centered, comprehensive, coordinated, and sustainable development was officially given the concept of "Scientific Development Concept."



In February 2004, the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China (CCP) held a special research class for provincial and ministerial main leaders on "Establishing and Implementing the Scientific Outlook on Development" at the Central Party School. Central leaders such as Wen Jiabao, Zeng Qinghong, and Zeng Peiyan explained the important significance of the scientific outlook on development in the class, emphasizing that insisting on people-orientedness is the essence and core of the scientific outlook on development, and put forward specific requirements for leaders at all levels to establish and implement the scientific outlook on development. As a result, the concept of the "Scientific Outlook on Development" is widely used among the central leadership.

On March 10, 2004, at the Central Population Resources and Environment Work Conference, Hu Jintao gave a comprehensive and profound explanation of the guiding significance, basic content, and basic requirements of the scientific outlook on development. He pointed out: sticking to people-oriented, comprehensive, coordinated, and sustainable development outlook is a major strategic thought proposed by us with Deng Xiaoping Theory and the "Three Represents" important thought as a guide, and starting from the overall situation of the party and the country's development in the new century and new stage. The Scientific Outlook on Development summarizes over twenty years of successful experiences in China's reform and modernization construction and absorbs lessons from other countries in the development process. It encapsulates the important inspirations that the SARS epidemic gave us, reveals the objective laws of economic and social development, and reflects our party's new understanding of development issues.

In October 2005, the Fifth Plenary Session of the 16th Central Committee of the CCP proposed that the scientific outlook on development is a concentrated reflection of the worldview and methodology guiding development issues. The plan of the "11th Five-Year Plan" reviewed by the plenary session fully implemented the requirements of the scientific outlook on development. This plenary session elevated the scientific outlook on development to the level of "worldview and methodology", further clarifying its guiding position in the party. Since then, General Secretary Hu Jintao has repeatedly elucidated and instructed the connotation, core, basic content, and requirements of the scientific outlook on development on different occasions, making it a consensus of the entire party and the people nationwide and an important guarantee for realizing the ambitious goal of building a moderately prosperous society in all respects. In 2007, the 17th National Congress of the Communist Party of China officially incorporated the Scientific Outlook on Development into the Party Constitution, giving it an even higher guiding position.

3. The inheritance and development of the scientific outlook on development to Marxist theory

The Scientific Outlook on Development is a major strategic thinking put forward by our party, insisting on Deng Xiaoping Theory and the "Three Represents" important thought as a guide, accurately understanding the trend of world development, seriously summarizing the experience of China's development, and conducting in-depth analysis of the specific characteristics of China's development stage.



This major strategic idea, is the inheritance and development of Marxism-Leninism, Mao Zedong Thought, Deng Xiaoping Theory, and the important thinking of "Three Represents." It is the concentrated embodiment of the Marxist worldview and methodology about development, it is the guiding principle that must be adhered to for the comprehensive development of socialist economic construction, political construction, cultural construction, and social construction.
Firstly, the scientific development concept inherits and develops the Marxist basic thought about development. The scientific development concept adheres to the basic principles of Marxism, closely integrating with the great practice of socialism with Chinese characteristics, absorbing the new achievements of human civilization progress, standing at the height of history and the era, aiming at enriching the connotation of development, innovating development concepts, exploring development ideas, solving development problems, further answered a series of major questions such as why and how China is developing in the new situation, and preliminarily formed the Marxist systematic theory about socialist development. In general, it emphasizes that human society is constantly developing and progressing, development is the eternal theme of human society; it emphasizes the coordination and sustainability of development, advocating the harmonious coexistence of man and nature; and it emphasizes that the ultimate goal of development is to realize the comprehensive progress of society and the comprehensive development of human beings. This development perspective shows that our party has reached a new realm in understanding the issue of development based on adhering to the Marxist perspective of development.

Secondly, the scientific development concept centrally embodies the Marxist methodological thinking on what is development and how to develop. The scientific development concept reveals the correct road for our country's economic and social development. The scientific development concept requires the correct handling of a series of major relations in socialist modernization construction such as economic development and social development, development speed and efficiency, market mechanism and macro-control, reform development stability, emphasizing comprehensively promoting economic construction, political construction, cultural construction and social construction, realizing economic development and comprehensive social progress. The basic requirement of the scientific development concept is overall planning. It runs through the Marxist standpoint, viewpoint, and method. In practice, it is to adhere to the "five coordination."

Thirdly, the scientific development concept sticks to the principle of people-oriented, reflecting the Marxist values. The people-oriented principle is the consistent social value orientation of Marxism. It emphasizes respect for the value of human existence, the value of demand, and the value of development, which is an important feature of Marxist theory of social development. In scientifically elucidating the law of human social development, the historical materialism also indicates the law of the masses creating history.



The concept of scientific development clearly advocates for putting people first, and emphasizes it as the "essence and core" of the scientific development concept. Everything is for the people, everything depends on the people, taking the masses as the main body and basic driving force of development, and at the same time, satisfying the growing material and cultural needs of the people as the fundamental starting point and ending point of development. This fully reflects the basic value orientation of the Marxist party and is a prominent expression of socialist value goals. Therefore, it is also the inevitable conclusion of the combination of the historical materialistic principle of putting man first and the nature and purpose of our party's founding for the public and governing for the people.
Three, the series of major strategic decisions to promote scientific development
The setting of the goal of building a well-off society in an all-round way and the proposal of the scientific development concept have provided a guarantee for our society to embark on the path of scientific development. On this basis, the Party has successively launched a series of major strategic decisions to ensure the health and rapid development of our society.
The proposal of the concept of scientific development is a summary of our party's experience in reform and opening up over the past more than twenty years, reflecting the Chinese Communist Party's new understanding of development issues, embodying the urgent requirements of building a well-off society in an all-round way, conforming to the trend of times and the contemporary China's national conditions.
In order to effectively implement the concept of scientific development and promote scientific development, the CPC Central Committee and the State Council have taken a series of major measures:
The first is to further strengthen and improve macro-control. In response to new problems arising in economic life such as food, investment, and tension in coal and electricity transportation, the central government has taken targeted control measures in credit, land, and agricultural production, suppressed unhealthy and unstable factors in economic operation, avoided large fluctuations in the national economy, and maintained the momentum of rapid economic growth.
The second is to improve the socialist market economic system. In October 2003, the Third Plenary Session of the Sixteenth Central Committee of the Party passed the "Decision on Several Issues Concerning the Improvement of the Socialist Market Economic System" (hereinafter referred to as the "Decision"), which clearly put forward the goal and main tasks of improving the socialist market economic system. Fulfilling these tasks would enhance enterprise vitality and competitiveness, improve the national macro-control system, improve government social management and public service functions, and provide a strong system guarantee for building a well-off society in all aspects. 
The third is to propose a general strategy for coordinated regional development. According to the requirements of the scientific development concept, the CPC Central Committee adheres to overall planning, rational planning, leveraging advantages, and implementing policies, and continuously makes new deployments for coordinated regional development. In March 2004, the State Council issued "Several Opinions on Further Promoting the Development of the Western Region", proposing to strengthen economic exchanges and cooperation between the western and eastern and central regions, establish a market-oriented cross-regional and cross-enterprise cooperation mechanism, and combine the capital, technology and talent advantages of the eastern and central regions with the resource, market and labor advantages of the western region to achieve complementary advantages, mutual benefit and common development.



In October 2005, the Fifth Plenary Session of the 16th Central Committee of the Communist Party reviewed China's experiences in socialist modernization, and further proposed a comprehensive strategy for regional development. This strategy emphasized the continued promotion of the development of the western regions, the revitalization of old industrial bases such as the northeast region, the rise of the central region, and the encouragement of the eastern region to take the lead in development to form a rational pattern of regional development. The Fifth Plenary Session outlined the developmental orientation and overall thinking for different regions based on their respective conditions, focusing on their comparative advantages, strengthening their weak links, and promoting coordinated development. The session stressed the need to implement mechanisms for regional coordination, clarify the functional positioning of different regions, and promote healthy urban development.

4. Formulating the "11th Five-Year Plan". In October 2005, the Fifth Plenary Session of the 16th Central Committee passed the "Proposals for Formulating the Eleventh Five-Year Plan for National Economic and Social Development" (hereinafter referred to as the "Proposals"). The "Proposals" considered the trends and conditions for China's development over the next five years, and put forward the main goals for the "11th Five-Year Plan": doubling the per capita GDP by 2010 compared to 2000; reducing energy consumption per unit GDP by about 20% compared to the end of the "10th Five-Year Plan"; effectively controlling the trend of environmental degradation and excessive reduction of arable land; forming a batch of dominant enterprises with strong international competitiveness, independent intellectual property rights and well-known brands; further improving the socialist market economy system, reaching a new level for an open economy, and achieving a basic balance of payments; universally spreading and consolidating nine-year compulsory education, continuously increasing the number of urban job positions, and improving the social security system, reducing the population living in poverty; generally improving the income level and quality of life of urban and rural residents, and maintaining price stability, improving the conditions of housing, transportation, education, culture, health care and the environment; making new progress in democratic and legal construction and spiritual civilization construction, further improving social order and safety, and making new progress in constructing a harmonious society.

5. Strengthening the construction of the New Socialist Countryside, continuing to deepen rural reform, and intensifying the fundamental role of agriculture. In December 2002, the Central Politburo held a meeting emphasizing that issues related to "agriculture, rural areas, and farmers" should be made the priority of the Party's work, and given even greater prominence. From 2004 to 2008, the Central Committee issued documents concerning the "three rural issues" ("agriculture, rural areas, and farmers") consecutively for five years with the "No.1 Document". At the Fifth Plenary Session of the 16th Central Committee of the Communist Party in 2005, it proposed the historical task of constructing the New Socialist Countryside and established the construction goals of "productive development, affluent living, civilized manners, clean and tidy villages, democratic management". In early 2006, the Central Committee issued the "Several Opinions of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China and the State Council on Promoting the Construction of the New Socialist Countryside" in the form of the "No.1 Document", laying out a comprehensive plan for the construction of the New Socialist Countryside. The Communist Party, in response to the changes in the stages of economic and social development, clearly proposed the establishment of a long-term mechanism of "promoting agriculture by industry and bringing the countryside along with the cities", adhering to the policy of "giving more, taking less and allowing vitality", and focusing on the "giving more" part to promote the construction of modern agriculture and strengthen the industrial support for the construction of the New Socialist Countryside. In terms of rural reform, the Communist Party decided to abolish the agricultural tax on the basis of accelerating the reform of rural taxes and fees and gradually reducing agricultural taxes. On December 29, 2005, the 19th Meeting of the Tenth Standing Committee of the National People's Congress officially decided to abolish the "Agricultural Tax Regulations" from January 1, 2006, which put an end to the "imperial grain and national tax" that had been in existence for over 2000 years in China. It was a historic change in the pattern of national income distribution, and brought rural reform to a comprehensive stage of reform that mainly involved town and village institutions, rural compulsory education, and county and village fiscal administration systems.

6. Constructing an innovative nation. Innovation is the soul of a nation's progress, and the inexhaustible driving force for a country's prosperity.



Since the 16th National Congress, the Party Central Committee has made a significant decision to promote independent innovation and build an innovative country, starting from the overall situation of comprehensively building a well-off society and opening up a new situation for the cause of socialism with Chinese characteristics. After nearly five years of refinement and development, in January 2006, Hu Jintao formally proposed the main struggle goal for China to build an innovative country at the opening ceremony of the National Science and Technology Conference, that is, by 2020, significantly enhance China's independent innovation capability, the ability of science and technology to promote economic and social development and ensure national security, and the comprehensive strength of basic science and frontier technology research, achieve a number of scientific and technological achievements with significant impact in the world, and join the ranks of innovative countries, providing strong support for the comprehensive construction of a well-off society.

Seventh is to orderly promote the construction of socialist democratic politics and strive to build socialist political civilization. The 16th National Congress of the Party set the development of socialist democratic politics and the construction of socialist political civilization as an important goal for the comprehensive construction of a well-off society, and required to continue to actively and steadily promote political system reform. After the 16th National Congress, the Party Central Committee, while pushing forward the construction of material and spiritual civilization, adapted the reform of the political system to the goal of building a socialist political civilization through adhering to and improving the people's congress system, strengthening the multi-party cooperation and political consultation system led by the CPC, continuously expanding grass-roots democracy, and steadily promoting the socialist rule of law and other aspects of construction.

Eighth, it is to deepen the cultural system reform and prosper the advanced socialist culture. With the economic transition and social transformation, the economic foundation, system environment, and social conditions for the construction and development of our culture have undergone profound changes. The 16th National Congress of the party required all party comrades to deeply understand the strategic significance of cultural construction, promote the development and prosperity of socialist culture, and proposed to formulate the overall plan for cultural system reform as soon as possible. On June 27 to 28, 2003, the National Cultural System Reform Pilot Work Conference studied and deployed the pilot work of cultural system reform. On December 23, 2005, the CPC Central Committee and the State Council issued the "Several Opinions on Deepening the Reform of the Cultural System", which clearly stated that the goal and task of the cultural system reform is to take development as the theme, reform as the driving force, and system and mechanism innovation as the focus, form a scientific and effective macro-cultural management system, an efficient cultural production and service micro-operation mechanism, and a cultural industry pattern and a unified, open, competitive, and orderly modern cultural market system that is dominated by public ownership and developed by various forms of ownership; must form a perfect cultural innovation system, form a cultural openness pattern that is dominated by national culture, absorbs beneficial foreign cultures, and promotes Chinese culture to the world. In March 2006, the National Cultural System Reform Work Conference summarized the pilot work of cultural system reform and made specific deployments to promote cultural system reform. As a result, the cultural system reform has entered a new stage. The pilot areas followed the principles of "separation of government and enterprises", "separation of political affairs", and "separation of management and operation", further transforming government functions. The reform of the non-profit cultural affairs is deepened, and the public service ability and level are significantly improved. Breakthrough progress has been made in the transformation of profit-oriented cultural business units to enterprise and market management, and a large number of large cultural groups have formed one after another.

In the process of promoting scientific development, the Party Central Committee has a clearer understanding of the systemic and mechanistic contradictions accumulated in China's economic and social development over the long term, as well as new situations and issues faced, and the understanding of the objective laws of economic and social development is further deepened. Grasping the laws of development, innovating development concepts, transforming development methods, solving development problems, and improving the quality and efficiency of development have gradually become the consensus of the whole party. On this basis, the Party Central Committee further put forward the requirement for "good and fast" development. In December 2006, the Central Economic Work Conference clearly stated: "We must deeply understand that good and fast development is the essential requirement for comprehensively implementing the scientific development concept…"



"From the previous "fast and good" to "good and fast", although it is just a change in the order of the two words, it better reflects the inner requirements of the scientific development perspective, reflecting the Party's guiding ideology elevating on development issues. It enables the entire party to have a more comprehensive understanding of the laws of development at the new stage, making the guidelines for guiding development more in line with reality, and the ways to solve difficult development problems are clearer.

IV. Strengthening the Party's capability in governance and progressive construction

Strengthening the party's capability in governance and continuously improving the ability and level of governance has always been an important aspect of the proletarian party's ideology of party building. As early as the establishment of the Soviet regime, Lenin had proposed that how the Communist Party consolidates power after governing will be an "extremely difficult new career" and "this is a severe test". He demanded that every CPSU member should "enrich their minds with all the knowledge that humanity has created", and continuously improve the party's ability and level of governance. After the establishment of New China, several generations of Chinese Communists have always taken strengthening the party's ability in governance as a major issue. Entering the new century and stage, with Hu Jintao as the general secretary, the party centrally made decisions to strengthen the party's governance capability according to the needs of the new situation and tasks.

On the eve of the establishment of New China, Mao Zedong warned the whole party about the new situation that our party will soon become a ruling party, "Victory over the whole country is only the first step in the Long March", "But the journey after the revolution is longer, and the work is more important and difficult." Beginning to govern on a nationwide scale is like "rushing to the exam in Beijing". Mao Zedong's thoughts initially put forward requirements for strengthening the party's ability in governance. After the reform and opening up, our party has always paid attention to the two historical issues of improving the party's ability in governance and leadership level, and improving the party's ability to fight corruption, prevent degeneration and resist risks. After entering the new century, with profound changes in the international and domestic political and economic situations, more severe challenges have been posed to our party's governance ability and leadership level, while also putting forward new and higher requirements for strengthening the party's governance ability.

Adapting to the requirements of new situation development, the 16th National Congress of the Party based on our party's historical status and the historical mission entrusted by the times, focusing on the direction of China's socialism with Chinese characteristics, proposed from the strategic height of the long-term stability of the party and the state, the basic requirement of striving to improve the five aspects of governance ability: First, continuously improving the ability to judge the situation scientifically. Second, continuously improving the ability to control the market economy. Third, continuously improving the ability to deal with complex situations. Fourth, continuously improving the ability to rule by law. Fifth, constantly improving the ability to have an overall grasp of the situation.

To grasp the issue of the party's governance capability, on September 7, 2004, the new party central committee held a political bureau meeting to discuss the work of the central political bureau since the third plenary session of the sixteenth session and further studied the issue of strengthening the party's governance capability. On September 19, the fourth plenary session of the 16th Party Congress was held in Beijing. The "Decision of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China on Strengthening the Party's Governance Capability" adopted by the plenary session comprehensively analyzed the current situation and tasks, scientifically summarized the main experience since the party's governance, scientifically summarized the party's governance capability, and clearly put forward the guiding ideology, overall goals, and main tasks for strengthening the party's governance capability."



The so-called governance capability of the party refers to: the ability of the party to propose and apply correct theories, lines, guidelines, policies and strategies, to lead the formulation and implementation of the constitution and laws, to adopt scientific leadership systems and leadership methods, to mobilize and organize the people to manage state and societal affairs, economy and cultural undertakings in accordance with the law, to effectively govern the party, the country and the military, and to build a modern socialist country.

The guiding thought of strengthening the party's governance capability is: to adhere to Marxism-Leninism, Mao Zedong Thought, Deng Xiaoping Theory and the important thought of "Three Represents" as the guide, to fully implement the scientific development concept, to fully implement the party's basic line, basic program, and basic experience, taking maintaining the flesh-and-blood ties between the party and the masses as the core, building a high-quality cadre team as the key, reforming and improving the party's leadership system and working mechanism as the focus, and strengthen the grassroots organizations of the party and the construction of party members as the foundation, striving to reflect the characteristics of the times, grasp the regularity, and be creative.

The overall goal of strengthening the party's governance capability is: through the common efforts of the entire party, to make the party always become the ruling party that establishes the party for the public and governs for the people, becomes the ruling party of scientific governance, democratic governance, rule of law, becomes a truth-seeking, pioneering, diligent, efficient, clear and incorrupt government, and ultimately becomes a Marxist ruling party that always achieves the "Three Represents", always maintains its advancement, and can withstand all kinds of challenges.

The main task of strengthening the party's governance capability is: according to the requirements of promoting the coordinated development of socialist material civilization, political civilization, and spiritual civilization, continuously improve the ability to control the socialist market economy, develop socialist democratic politics, build socialist advanced culture, construct socialist harmonious society, and cope with international situations and handle international affairs.

In addition, the "Decision of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China on Strengthening the Governance Capacity of the Party" passed by the Fourth Plenary Session of the 16th Central Committee also made specific strategic deployments for improving the party's governance capacity on the basis of the "five aspects of governance capacity" proposed by the 16th National Congress of the party.

According to the relevant deployments of the Central Committee, in order to strengthen the party's governance capacity and ensure that the party is always at the forefront of the times and better shoulder the historical mission, on November 7, 2004, the central committee issued "Opinions on Carrying out the Practice of 'Three Represents' Important Thought as the Main Content to Maintain the Advanced Nature of Communist Party Members" (referred to as "Opinions"), making specific deployment for advanced education activities:
In terms of target requirements, in general, it is necessary to improve the quality of party members, strengthen grassroots organizations, serve the people, and promote all work; from the overall process, this activity to maintain the advanced nature of communist party members education is divided into three batches, each batch takes about half a year. The first batch is the party and government organs at the county and above levels and some enterprises and institutions, starting from January 2005 and ending in June 2005. The second batch is urban grassroots and township organs, starting from July 2005 and ending in December 2005. The third batch is rural and some party and government organs, starting from January 2006 and ending in June 2006. In terms of methods and steps, the centralized education is carried out in three stages, namely, learning and mobilizing, analysis and evaluation stage, and rectification and improvement stage.

After the "Opinions" were issued, from January 5 to 6, 2005, the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China also held a work conference on maintaining the advanced nature of Communist Party members education, and made specific deployments for advanced education work. According to the overall arrangement of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China, the Politburo Standing Committee of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China participated in the first batch of advanced education activities. On January 14, at the special report meeting on maintaining the advanced nature of Communist Party members in the new era, Hu Jintao made an important speech on the importance and necessity of strengthening the construction of the party's advanced nature and carrying out advanced education activities, the basic requirements for Communist Party members to maintain their advanced nature in the new era, and other issues, calling on all Communist Party members to actively participate in advanced education activities.




Following the Central Advanced Education Work Conference, from January 2005 onwards, the advanced education activities for Communist Party members were launched in three batches, and by June 2006, the nationwide advanced education activities for Communist Party members had essentially concluded. During this one-and-a-half-year period, more than 3.5 million grassroots party organizations and nearly 70 million party members participated in the advanced education activities. In practice, the entire education movement was healthy and orderly, solidly implemented, made smooth progress, and achieved noticeable results in advancing the Party's progress and governing capability, receiving praise from the vast majority of party members, cadres, masses, and all sectors of society.

V. Uphold the path of peaceful development and advocate for building a harmonious world

Entering a new stage in the new century, China's socialist modernization has reached a new strategic opportunity. Under the leadership of the Party Central Committee with Hu Jintao as General Secretary along with the entire Party and all of the people, facing a series of new changes in the international and domestic environment, the nation is accelerating economic development while also paying more attention to the modernization of the military and national defense, actively carrying out diplomatic work, and tirelessly promoting the peaceful unification of the motherland and safeguarding strategic opportunities.

In order to realize the synchronous development of national defense and national economy, adapting to the changing international military situation after entering the 21st century, the Party Central Committee requires the entire military to actively meet the severe challenges of the new world military reform by pressing ahead with China's military reform with urgency, striving to complete the dual historical duties of mechanized and informatized construction, unswervingly realizing the strategic goal of building an informatized army and winning informatized warfare. On September 20, 2004, at the expanded meeting of the Central Military Commission, Hu Jintao, who had just taken over as Chairman of the Central Military Commission, proposed that they "continuously improve the ability to strengthen the ideological and political construction of the troops, grasp the correct direction of troop construction, continuously improve the ability to lead military struggle preparations, lead the troops to accomplish combat missions under informatized conditions, continuously improve the promotion of military reform with Chinese characteristics, and promote mechanization and informatization construction of the troops, continuously improve the legal and strict military governance, strengthen the standardization construction of the troops".

On March 13, 2005, Hu Jintao delivered an important speech at the plenary meeting of the PLA delegation to the Third Session of the Tenth National People's Congress, on behalf of the Central Military Commission he proposed new requirements for the historical mission of our army which were to "provide important guarantees of strength for the Party to consolidate its ruling position, provide strong safety guarantees for maintaining the country's important strategic opportunities, provide powerful strategic support for safeguarding national interests, play an important role in maintaining world peace and promoting common development". This new mission entrusted to our army by the Party Central Committee and the Central Military Commission carries epoch-making significance.

To put this mission into practice, our army has further accelerated its reform along the Chinese characteristic path of a fine and capable troop. Following the large-scale military cutbacks of one million in the mid-1980s and 500,000 in the mid to late 1990s, in September 2003, the Chinese government decided to reduce another 200,000 troops before 2005. Simultaneously with the reduction of troop strength, the state has increased its investment in national defense construction. The military and political qualities of the army's officers and men have been significantly improved and the development of weapons and equipment, and the cause of national defense and science and technology have made remarkable strides.

Since the 16th National Congress of the Communist Party of China, the most noteworthy aspect of China's diplomacy has been its advocacy and active promotion of the construction of a "harmonious world". This international strategic thought reflects the basic judgment and value of the Chinese Communist Party on the current international situation, global issues, and the fate of humanity, and it is a new summary of the goals of China's independent and peaceful foreign policy in the new era.

On April 22, 2005, at the Asian-African Summit in Jakarta, State President Hu Jintao appealed to countries around the world to "promote friendly coexistence between different civilizations, equal dialogue, development prosperity, and jointly construct a harmonious world," putting forward for the first time the proposition of building a "harmonious world".



On July 1, the leaders of China and Russia held a meeting, incorporating the concept of a "harmonious world" into the "Sino-Russian Joint Declaration on the International Order of the 21st Century", for the first time acknowledging it as a consensus between the two major countries. On September 15, Hu Jintao delivered a speech titled "Striving to Build a Harmonious World of Enduring Peace and Common Prosperity” at the 60th anniversary of the United Nations, proposing that "in the face of the complex world today, we should pay more attention to harmony, emphasize harmony, promote harmony, and build a harmonious world of enduring peace and common prosperity", fully expressing the rich connotations of a "harmonious world". In August 2006, the Communist Party of China held the National Foreign Affairs Conference, identifying the construction of a "harmonious world" as the goal of China's diplomatic work. 

To promote the construction of a harmonious world, the Chinese government actively carried out a series of productive diplomatic activities. China's relations with major countries continued to maintain stability and development, and the friendship and cooperation with neighboring countries continued to be consolidated. 

In 2003, the second China-Africa Cooperation Forum passed the "Addis Ababa Action Plan (2004-2006)", planning cooperation in various fields such as economy, trade, and social affairs for the next three years; Following the signing of the "Framework Agreement on Comprehensive Economic Cooperation between China and ASEAN" in 2002, China and ASEAN signed the "Goods Trade Agreement" and the "Dispute Settlement Mechanism Agreement" in November 2004, stipulating the gradual elimination of most bilateral trade tariffs and other trade barriers by 2010. From November 28 to 30, Wen Jiabao visited Laos and attended the eighth ASEAN and Chinese Leaders Meeting (10+1) held in Vientiane, delivering the "Action Plan Implementing China-ASEAN Strategic Partnership for Peace and Prosperity Joint Declaration". In April 2005, Wen Jiabao visited Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, and India, and attended the fourth foreign ministers' meeting of the Asia Cooperation Dialogue held in Islamabad. During the visit, China-Pakistan and China-India announced the establishment of strategic partnership, while China-Bangladesh and China-Sri Lanka announced the establishment of comprehensive partnership. 

As of 2008, China has participated in more than 100 intergovernmental international organizations, more than 300 international conventions, 22 UN peacekeeping actions, dispatched tens of thousands of peacekeepers, and is the nation that has sent out the largest number of peacekeepers among the five permanent members of the UN Security Council.

After active efforts, China's diplomacy has bilateral and multilateral aspects, attaches equal importance to traditional security and non-traditional security, and has begun to form a new model of comprehensive development of politics, economy, diplomacy, military, culture, and other aspects. 

Since the 16th National Congress, the new central leadership collective has strictly dealt with the issues of the Hong Kong and Macau Special Administrative Regions in accordance with the "one country, two systems" policy, and implemented some important measures in light of new developments in Hong Kong and Macau.



In cross-strait relations, the central government actively responds to new changes in the Taiwan Strait situation and has taken significant and positive steps. The struggle against "Taiwan independence" and to uphold national sovereignty has made new progress. Since Hong Kong and Macao returned to the motherland, the party central committee and the state council have always regarded maintaining the long-term prosperity and stability of Hong Kong and Macao, maintaining and developing the fundamental interests of Hong Kong and Macao compatriots as the starting point and foothold for handling Hong Kong and Macao affairs, and have unwaveringly adhered to the principles and the Basic Law of the Special Administrative Regions of "one country, two systems", "Hong Kong people ruling Hong Kong", "Macao people ruling Macao", and a high degree of autonomy. The central government has resolutely supported the special administrative regional chief executives and the government to govern according to the law. 

The central government has given full support to the prosperity and stability of Hong Kong and Macao. Not only has it taken effective measures to help Hong Kong and Macao successfully get rid of the negative impacts brought about by the Asian financial crisis, but it has also promoted common development with the mainland by further strengthening mainland and Hong Kong and Macao ties, engaging in multi-field exchanges and cooperations, and implementing policies such as the regional cooperation of the Pan-Pearl River Delta. It has provided a broader development space for the prosperity and stability of Hong Kong and Macao. With the support of the central government and mainland compatriots, the economies of Hong Kong and Macao have become more prosperous, democracy has developed in an orderly manner, the people live in peace and contentment, and society remains stable. The majority of Hong Kong and Macao compatriots passionately love their motherland and care for Hong Kong and Macao, demonstrating a diligent and upward spirit. 

Since the return of Hong Kong and Macao, cross-strait relations have received more attention from the Communist Party of China and all Chinese people. The party central committee, in response to the changes in cross-strait relations and Taiwan's situation, proposed some new ideas and took some new steps based on existing policies to continuously promote the development of cross-strait relations. 

On March 4, 2005, Hu Jintao put forward four points of view on the development of cross-strait relations under new circumstances, emphasizing unswerving adherence to the principle of one China, persistent efforts for peaceful reunification, unchanging policy of entrusting hope to Taiwan people, and uncompromising opposition to "Taiwan independence". The four "unswervings", which have caused a major response in the Taiwan Strait and the international community, have been widely welcomed and highly praised. On March 14, the Anti-Secession Law was approved by a high vote at the third session of the tenth National People's Congress, engraining the central government's major policy guidelines on resolving Taiwan issues and opposing the division of the motherland. The enactment and approval of this law fully reflect the consistent position of the Communist Party of China to strive for peaceful reunification with the utmost sincerity and effort and also demonstrate the firm determination of the Communist Party of China and Chinese people to maintain national unity and territorial integrity. 

Under the correct policies of the party central committee, after efforts from various parties, party exchanges between the two sides of the Taiwan Strait successfully began. In 2005, Lien Chan, Chairman of the Chinese Nationalist Party in Taiwan, James Soong, Chairman of the People First Party, and Yok Mu-ming, Chairman of the New Party, each led delegations to visit the mainland in turn. Hu Jintao, the General Secretary, met and talked with them separately, jointly issued statements, and reached many common understandings — such as adhering to the "1992 Consensus", opposing "Taiwan independence", seeking peace and stability across the Taiwan Strait, and promoting the development of cross-strait relations. In the three cross-strait economic, trade, and cultural forums held by the relevant parties of the Communist Party of China and the Chinese Nationalist Party, the Mainland side launched 48 policy measures to promote cross-strait exchanges and cooperation and to benefit Taiwan compatriots, including expanding Taiwan's agricultural product sales in the Mainland, recognizing Taiwan higher education degrees approved by Taiwan's competent education authorities, allowing Taiwan compatriots who meet the required conditions to apply for practice registration and short-term medical treatment in the Mainland, etc. The CPC and the PFP also held a "Cross-Strait Civilian Elite Forum". Through extensive exchanges and cooperation between political parties across the Taiwan Strait, a new situation has been created to curb "Taiwan independence" separatist activities and to promote the development of cross-strait relations.



Activities such as "legal independence", "new constitutional referendum", "joining the United Nations in the name of Taiwan" and other "Taiwan independence" activities by the Taiwan authorities have been repeatedly foiled. The struggle against "Taiwan independence" has also received widespread understanding and support from the international community. Many countries of significant influence have repeatedly reaffirmed their adherence to the one-China policy. In September 2007, the 62nd General Assembly of the United Nations overwhelmingly rejected the so-called "Taiwan joining the United Nations" proposal instigated by the Chen Shui-bian administration and a very few nations. In March 2008, elections were held in Taiwan, where the ruling Chen Shui-bian administration, which was getting more and more distant on the path of "Taiwan independence", was finally abandoned by the Taiwanese people, and the Kuomintang regained its ruling status. Cross-strait relations saw new changes favorable to peaceful development.

Chapter 12: Implementation of the Scientific Development Concept and Building a Socialist Harmonious Society

Since the 16th National Congress of the Party, the Party Central Committee, with Hu Jintao as General Secretary, has clearly proposed the concept of scientific development in the practice of fully building a well-off society, further summarized the theoretical system of socialism with Chinese characteristics, and under the guidance of the concept of scientific development, has set new requirements for the goal of fully building a well-off society, promoted the building of a harmonious society, deepened administrative system reform and rural reform, and generated a series of strategic decisions promoting the scientific development of Chinese society, pushing forward the steady and healthy progress of our society.

I. New Summary of the Theoretical System of Socialism with Chinese Characteristics

From October 15 to 21, 2007, the 17th National Congress of the Communist Party of China was held in Beijing. The main theme was: Holding high the great banner of socialism with Chinese characteristics, guided by Deng Xiaoping Theory and the important thought of "Three Represents", thoroughly implementing the Scientific Development Concept, continuing to emancipate the mind, adhering to reform and opening up, promoting scientific development, promoting social harmony, and striving for new victories in building a well-off society in all respects. Hu Jintao, on behalf of the 16th Central Committee, delivered a speech titled "Holding high the great banner of socialism with Chinese characteristics, striving for new victories in building a well-off society" to the congress. The congress elected the new Central Committee and Central Discipline Inspection Commission, and adopted resolutions on the report of the 16th Central Committee, the report of the Central Discipline Inspection Commission, and the resolution on the Amendment to the Constitution of the Communist Party of China.

The report of the 17th Congress scientifically answered major questions such as what banner the Party should hold, what road it should take, what kind of spiritual state it should maintain, and what development goals it should aim for in the key stage of reform and development. It made comprehensive arrangements for the grand goal of building a well-off society in all respects, and made clear requirements for comprehensively advancing the new great project of Party building with the spirit of reform and innovation.

The report of the 17th Congress comprehensively reviewed the historic changes in the image of the Chinese people, socialist China, and the Communist Party of China over the past 30 years of reform and opening up, and scientifically summarized the precious experience of our large country, with a population of more than one billion, in getting rid of poverty, accelerating modernization, and consolidating and developing socialism. The report pointed out that the fundamental reason for all our achievements and progress since the reform and opening up is that we have opened up the path of socialism with Chinese characteristics and formed the theoretical system of socialism with Chinese characteristics.

The path of socialism with Chinese characteristics is to uphold the leadership of the Communist Party of China, base ourselves on the fundamental national conditions, focus on economic construction, adhere to the four cardinal principles, adhere to reform and opening up, liberate and develop social productivity, consolidate and improve socialist system, build socialist market economy, socialist democratic politics, advanced socialist culture, and a harmonious socialist society, and build a prosperous, democratic, civilized and harmonious modern socialist country.

The theoretical system of socialism with Chinese characteristics includes major strategic thoughts such as Deng Xiaoping Theory, the important thought of "Three Represents", and the Scientific Development Concept.



The proposal of the new topic "Theoretical System of Socialism with Chinese Characteristics" is a scientific integration of our party's innovative theories in the new historical period of reform and opening up. It is also a scientific description of the openness of our party's theoretical achievements since the reform and opening up. It is a major theoretical contribution of the 17th National Congress and the latest result of the sinicization of Marxism. Over the past thirty years, in the great historical process of reform, opening up, and socialist modernization, our party has adhered to the emancipation of the mind, seeking truth from facts, keeping pace with the times, and constantly advancing the process of sinicization of Marxism with significant theoretical innovations, thus forming the theoretical system of socialism with Chinese characteristics.

Since the Third Plenary Session of the 11th Central Committee, facing the precarious situation caused by ten years of the "Cultural Revolution", the Chinese Communists, represented mainly by Deng Xiaoping, with tremendous theoretical courage and political courage, scientifically evaluated Mao Zedong and Mao Zedong Thought. They thoroughly negated the erroneous theories and practices of "class struggle as the guiding principle," made a historical decision to focus on economic construction and carry out reform and opening up, ushered in a new period of socialist development, and gradually formed Deng Xiaoping Theory by continuing to accumulate experience and exploring theories on "what is socialism and how to build socialism."

Since the Fourth Plenary Session of the 13th Central Committee, the Chinese Communists, represented mainly by Jiang Zemin, have held high the great banner of Deng Xiaoping Theory, persisted in reform and opening up, kept pace with the times, successfully pushed forward the modernization cause of socialism with Chinese characteristics into the 21st century, and deepened the understanding of "what is socialism, how to build socialism" and "what kind of party to build, how to build the party" in the practice of building socialism with Chinese characteristics, forming the "three represents" important thinking, thus enriching and developing the theoretical system of socialism with Chinese characteristics.

Since the 16th National Congress, the Central Committee of the Party with Hu Jintao as the General Secretary, based on the basic national conditions of the primary stage of socialism and the new development requirements, drawing on our country's development experience and foreign development experience, has preliminarily answered "what kind of development we are striving to achieve and how to develop," among other major theoretical and practical issues, and proposed a series of strategic thoughts including the scientific development concept. The concept is an inheritance and development of the important development thoughts of the three generations of central leadership of the Party, a concentrated reflection of the Marxist worldview and methodology on development, a scientific theory that both inherits and keeps pace with Marxism-Leninism, Mao Zedong Thought, Deng Xiaoping Theory, and the important thought of "Three Represents". It is also a significant guiding principle for China's economic and social development, and a major strategic thought that must be adhered to and implemented in the development of socialism with Chinese characteristics.

Deng Xiaoping Theory and the "Three Represents" important thoughts were respectively written into the Party Constitution at the 15th and 16th National Congresses and established as the Party's guiding thoughts. The 17th National Congress unanimously agreed to write the concept of scientific development into the Party Constitution.

The theory of socialism with Chinese characteristics adheres to and develops Marxism-Leninism and Mao Zedong Thought, embodies the wisdom and hard work of several generations of Chinese Communists leading the people in their unremitting exploration, and is the latest result of the sinization of Marxism. It's the Party's most precious political and spiritual wealth and the common ideological foundation for the united struggle of all ethnic groups across the country. The theoretical system of socialism with Chinese characteristics is a continuously developing and open theoretical system. The practice of nearly 160 years since the publication of the Communist Manifesto has proved that Marxism can only bloom with strong vitality, creativity, and appeal when it is integrated with the national conditions of the host country, advances with the times, and shares destiny with the masses. In contemporary China, adhering to the theoretical system of socialism with Chinese characteristics is truly adhering to Marxism. 

2. The new requirements for comprehensively building a well-off society and the overall layout of the "four-pronged comprehensive" construction.

Adhering to the theoretical system of socialism with Chinese characteristics, from a practical perspective, means adapting to the new changes in domestic and international situations, meeting the new expectations of people of all ethnic groups for a better life, deeply implementing and striving to realize the new requirements of the goal of comprehensively building a well-off society proposed by the 17th National Congress of the Party.

1. The new requirements for the goal of comprehensively building a well-off society.



We have already taken solid strides towards the goal of building a well-off society in an all-round way as established by the 16th National Congress, and we should continue to strive hard to ensure that we achieve our goal of building a well-off society in all respects by 2020. To this end, the 17th National Congress of the Party has put forward the following new requirements:

(1) Enhance the coherence of development and strive to achieve both good and fast economic development. Significant progress has been made in transforming the structure of development, improving the benefits, reducing consumption, protecting the environment, and doubling the per capita gross domestic product by 2020 compared to 2000. The socialist market economy system has been further improved. Self-innovation ability has been significantly improved, and the growth rate of technological progress has significantly increased, ranking among innovative countries. The consumption rate of residents has steadily increased, forming a coordinated growth pattern driven by consumption, investment, and export. The mechanisms for coordinated and interactive development between urban and rural areas and a layout based on main functional areas have basically formed. Significant progress has been made in the construction of a new socialist countryside. The proportion of urban population has significantly increased.

(2) Expand socialist democracy and better protect people's rights and interests and social justice. The orderly expansion of citizen political participation. The basic strategy of ruling the country by law is being deeply implemented, the concept of the rule of law in the whole society has further strengthened, and new results have been achieved in the construction of a government by law. The grassroots democratic system has been improved. The government's ability to provide basic public services has been significantly enhanced.

(3) Strengthen the construction of culture, and significantly improve the cultural quality of the entire nation. The socialist core value system has deeply infiltrated people's hearts, and good ideological and moral trends have been further promoted. A public cultural service system that covers the entire society has been basically established, the cultural industry's share of the national economy has significantly increased, international competitiveness has significantly enhanced, and cultural products that meet the needs of the people are more abundant.

(4) Accelerate the development of social undertakings and improve the people’s livelihood comprehensively. A more complete modern national education system, a basic lifelong education system has been formed, and the level of public education and innovation talent training has been significantly improved. Employment is more sufficient. A social security system covering urban and rural residents has basically been established, and everyone enjoys basic living security.



A reasonably ordered income distribution pattern has formed, with the majority being middle-income earners, and absolute poverty has been essentially eliminated. Everyone enjoys basic medical and health services. The social management system has improved.
(5) Constructing an ecological civilization, basically forming an industrial structure, growth model, and consumption pattern that saves energy and protect the ecological environment. The circular economy has formed a large scale, and the proportion of renewable energy has significantly increased. The emission of major pollutants has been effectively controlled, and the quality of the ecological environment has significantly improved. Eco-civilization concepts are firmly established in the whole society.
By the time the goal of comprehensively building a well-off society is achieved in 2020, our ancient civilization, with its long history, and developing socialist country, will become a country that has fundamentally completed industrialization, significantly strengthened comprehensive national power, and ranks among the top in the world in terms of total domestic market size. It will become a country where people's wealth and quality of life have generally improved, the ecological environment is good, people enjoy more complete democratic rights, have higher cultural quality and spiritual pursuits, the institutional system is more perfect, society is more vibrant and stable and unified, and the country which is more open to the outside world, has more affinity, and contributes more to human civilization.
Implementing the above-mentioned new requirements for striving to fully build a well-off society, all party comrades must "fully grasp the scientific connotation and spiritual substance of the scientific development concept, enhance the consciousness and determination to implement the scientific development concept, strive to change thoughts and ideas that are not adapted or conform to the scientific development concept, strive to solve outstanding problems that affect and restrict scientific development, guide the development enthusiasm of the whole society to scientific development, and implement the scientific development concept in all aspects of economic and social development".
In-depth implementation of the new requirements for striving to fully build a well-off society, one of the most important tasks is to actively build a socialist harmonious society. This is because scientific development and social harmony are inherently unified. Without scientific development, there is no social harmony, and without social harmony, it is difficult to achieve scientific development. Therefore, the new demands of striving to fully build a well-off society must always focus on the construction of a socialist harmonious society.
2. Strive to build a socialist harmonious society
The construction of a socialist harmonious society is a major strategic decision made by our Party based on the basic principles of Marxism and the practical experience of our country's socialist construction, and according to the new demands of our country's economic and social development in the new century and the new stage, and the new trends and characteristics of our society. It is a significant achievement of our Party in guiding new social practice with developing Marxism.
(1) The proposal of the idea of building a socialist harmonious society
A socialist harmonious society is our Party's unremitting goal and the common social ideal of all ethnic groups in our country. After the founding of New China, we established the socialist system where the people are the masters, eliminated the institutional roots that lead to social opposition and social disharmony, and opened up a vast path for the construction of a harmonious society.



However, because understanding the laws governing socialist construction requires a process, we have made mistakes in our perception of what socialism is and how to build it, even leading to severe mistakes such as the Cultural Revolution which was comprehensive and lasted for a long time. After the third plenary session of the eleventh Central Committee of the Party, our party decisively abandoned the guideline of “taking class struggle as the guiding principle”, shifted the focus of the party and the country's work to socialist modernization, adhered to the principle of economic construction, persistently promoted reform and opening up, actively led economic development and comprehensive social progress, and forcefully promoted the building of a harmonious society.
For a long time, thanks to the joint efforts of our party and the Chinese people, our society has generally reached a harmonious state. However, there are also many contradictions and problems that affect social harmony, the main ones being: the imbalance among urban and rural areas, regions, economic and social developments, the increased pressure of population, resources, and environment; issues related to employment, social security, income distribution, education, health care, housing, industrial safety, and social order which closely interconnect with the people's interests are relatively prominent; the institutional mechanism is not yet perfect, and democracy and legality are not yet well developed. The lack of integrity and moral norm among some social members, the qualities, capabilities, and style of some leaders do not meet the requirements of the new situation and tasks; the corruption phenomenon in some areas is still quite serious; the infiltration and destruction activities of hostile forces endanger national security and social stability. The existence of these contradictions and problems shows that there are still difficult tasks in building a socialist harmonious society in China. Faced with this challenging historical task, the Party's sixteenth National Congress proposed "a harmonious society" as one of the goals for a society of overall well-being.
(2) Further systemization and theorization of the concept of a harmonious society
Since the sixteenth National Congress of the Party, our party's understanding of social harmony has deepened, and the position of a socialist harmonious society in the overall layout of the cause of socialism with Chinese characteristics has become increasingly clear.
In November 2002, the sixteenth Congress of the Party proposed the goal of building an overall well-off society with "six more", one of which is "more harmonious society". In September 2004, the resolution on strengthening the party's governance capacity adopted by the fourth plenary session of the 16th Central Committee of Communist Party of China proposed the proposition of constructing a harmonious society, making the enhancement of the capacity to build a harmonious society one of the main tasks of constructing the party's ruling capability.
On February 19, 2005, Hu Jintao initially outlined the basic characteristics of a socialist harmonious society at a workshop for principals of provincial and ministerial bodies focused on "improving the capacity to build a socialist harmonious society". He clearly pointed out that our socialist harmonious society should be one of democracy and rule of law, fairness and justice, trust and love, full of vitality, stable order, and harmonious coexistence of man and nature. Hu Jintao also stressed that the construction of a socialist harmonious society is organically integrated with the construction of material, political, and spiritual civilization in socialism. They have not only inseparable close connections, but also their special fields and laws.



Building a socialist material civilization, political civilization, and spiritual civilization can provide a solid foundation for constructing a socialist harmonious society; on the other hand, constructing a socialist harmonious society can also provide important conditions for building a socialist material civilization, political civilization, and spiritual civilization.
In October 2006, the Sixth Plenary Session of the 16th Central Committee of the Party made the "Decision on Some Major Issues Regarding the Construction of a Socialist Harmonious Society" (referred to as the "Decision"), which formed a programmatic document for constructing a socialist harmonious society. Starting from the importance and urgency of building a socialist harmonious society, the "Decision" first clarified the nature and positioning of the socialist harmonious society. The socialist harmonious society that we want to build is not the same as the "Great Harmony World" envisioned by some thinkers in our country's history, it is also different from the "Utopia" depicted by utopian socialists, but the product of the combination of Marxist thoughts on social harmony with contemporary China's reality. The "Decision" points out that the socialist harmonious society we want to build is a harmonious society co-constructed and jointly enjoyed by all the people under the leadership of the Chinese Communist Party on the road to socialism with Chinese characteristics. This clarifies the leadership core, development path, practical subject, and ultimate goal of the construction of the socialist harmonious society.

To construct a socialist harmonious society, correct guiding thoughts are necessary. The "Decision" emphasizes that it is necessary to adhere to Marxism-Leninism, Mao Zedong Thought, Deng Xiaoping Theory and the "Three Represents" important thought as the guide, adhere to the Party's basic line, basic program, basic experience, adhere to the scientific development view to command the overall situation of economic and social development, in accordance with the general requirements for democratic rule of law, fairness and justice, sincerity and love, vitality, stability and order, and harmonious coexistence between man and nature, focus on solving the most concerned, direct, and realistic interest problems of the people, and strive to develop social undertakings, promote social fairness and justice, construct a harmonious culture, improve social management, enhance social creativity, follow the path of common prosperity, and promote coordinated development of social construction with economic construction, political construction, cultural construction.

(3) Goals, main tasks, and basic principles of building a socialist harmonious society

In accordance with the goal of building a moderately prosperous society in all respects set by the 16th National Congress of the Party, based on the general requirements for building a socialist harmonious society, the "Decision" proposes the goals and main tasks for building a socialist harmonious society by 2020: the socialist democratic legal system is more perfect, the strategy of governing the country according to the law is fully implemented, and the rights and interests of the people are effectively respected and protected; the trend of widening gaps in urban and rural, regional development is gradually reversed, a reasonable and orderly income distribution pattern is basically formed, household wealth is generally increased, people live a wealthier life; employment is relatively full, a social security system covering urban and rural residents is basically established; the basic public service system is more complete, the level of government management and service has been greatly improved; the ideological, moral, scientific and cultural, and health qualities of the entire nation have significantly improved, good moral customs and harmonious interpersonal relationships have been further formed; the creative vitality of the whole society has significantly increased, the innovative country is basically built; the social management system is more perfect, social order is good; the efficiency of resource utilization has significantly improved, the ecological environment has significantly improved; to achieve the goal of building a higher-level moderately prosperous society benefiting billions of people, and strive to form a situation where all people can do their best, get their due, and live in harmony.

To build a socialist harmonious society, it is necessary to adhere to the correct principles. The plenary "Decision" puts forward the "Six Must Adheres" principles: ① Must adhere to putting people first; ② Must adhere to scientific development; ③ Must adhere to reform and opening up; ④ Must adhere to democratic rule of law; ⑤ Must adhere to properly handling the relationship between reform, development, and stability; ⑥ Must adhere to the joint construction of the entire society under the leadership of the party.

3. Preliminary clarification of the overall layout of socialist construction

The proposal of the strategic task of constructing a socialist harmonious society has made the overall layout of the cause of socialism with Chinese characteristics more clearly develop from a trinity of socialist economic construction, political construction, cultural construction to a four-in-one of socialist economic construction, political construction, cultural construction, and social construction.



From a comprehensive perspective, it is not difficult to find that: regarding the construction of socialist politics, it mainly involves solving the framework of the basic political form of socialism with Chinese characteristics, continuously improving the socialist political system, and gradually reflecting the scientificity, rationality, and effectiveness of political governance; concerning the construction of socialist economics, it primarily involves continuously building the basic economic system of socialism to address the issues of motivation and efficiency in socialist society development, thus establishing a solid material basis for the consolidation of socialism; regarding the construction of socialist culture, it is mainly about forming the core value theory of socialism and healthy humanistic concepts, building a scientific, advanced socialist ideological theory and social cultural atmosphere, to create a good humanistic environment for the better development of socialism. The construction of a harmonious socialist society aims to better solve the overall layout of socialist modernization, promote political development, economic development, and cultural development while emphasizing the resolution of social development and progress, a historical issue. The proposal of the development layout idea of "Four-in-one" has further enriched and developed the theory of socialism with Chinese characteristics from the perspectives of social motivation, social development, social progress, etc., and becomes an intrinsic component of the cause of socialism with Chinese characteristics, further clarifying the social value orientation and development goals of socialism, which not only innovates the balance mechanism of socialist society but also develops the power mechanism of socialist society. Therefore, the proposal of this concept not only highlights the tasks of social construction, makes the overall layout of our country's socialist modernization construction more reasonable, but also makes the development model of socialism with Chinese characteristics clearer. 
The strategic idea of building a harmonious socialist society is consistent with the basic principles of Marxism, fits the scientific conception of Marxist's socialist society and represents our Party's new progress in theory and practice of socialist society construction. This is both a summary of the Party's experience in governance and a reference to the governing experience and lessons of some foreign ruling parties; it deepens the understanding of the law of our country's socialist construction and deepens the understanding of the Communist Party’s ruling law, the law of socialist construction, and the law of human social development; it enriches and develops the theory of socialism with Chinese characteristics and enriches and develops the Marxist theory of socialist construction. 
Third, new deployments of deepening administrative system reform and rural reform 
From February 25 to 27, 2008, the second plenary session of the 17th Central Committee of the Communist Party of China was held in Beijing. The meeting examined and approved the "Opinions on Deepening the Reform of the Administrative Management System" and the "Plan for Reform of Government Institutions" proposed after extensive solicitation of opinions, and agreed to submit the "Plan for Reform of Government Institutions" to the first session of the 11th National People's Congress for deliberation. 
1. Opinions on Deepening the Reform of the Administrative Management System
The Central Committee of the Party and the State Council have always attached great importance to the reform of the administrative system. Since the reform and opening up, and especially since the 16th National Congress of the Party, we have continuously promoted the reform of the administrative system, strengthened the construction of the government itself, and achieved remarkable results. Overall, our country's administrative system basically meets the requirements of economic and social development and has strongly guaranteed the development of the reform and opening up and the cause of socialist modernization. Of course, to meet the new requirements of the administrative system in the face of the new situation and new tasks, the current administrative system still has some unsuitable aspects: the transformation of government functions is not in place, there is too much intervention in the microeconomic operation, and social management and public services are relatively weak; the overlapping of responsibilities among departments, disconnection of rights and responsibilities, and inefficiency are still prominent; the government agency setup still has scope for improvement, the administrative operation and management system is not sound enough; the supervision and restriction mechanism on administrative power is not perfect, and the misuse of power for private gains, corruption, and other issues still exist. These problems directly affect the government's comprehensive and proper performance of its duties, restricting economic and social development to a certain extent. Deepening the reform of the administrative system is imperative.  
(1) The goal of deepening administrative system reform. As for the overall goal of deepening administrative system reform, the "Opinions on Deepening the Reform of the Administrative Management System" clearly stated: to establish a relatively complete socialist administrative management system with Chinese characteristics by 2020.



Through reform, we aim to fundamentally shift the functions of government towards creating a favorable developmental environment, providing high-quality public services, and maintaining social fairness and justice. We aim to fundamentally transform the organization and personnel structure of the government in a scientific, standardized, and legal way. We aim to transform fundamentally the administrative operation mechanism and government management in a standardized, open, transparent, convenient, and efficient manner, to build a government that satisfies the people.
(2) The core of deepening administrative management system reform is to expedite the transformation of government functions. Functions of government departments should be clearly demarcated, responsibilities specified, and rights and duties made consistent. We should streamline the division of responsibilities among departments, upholding the principle that one department should be in charge of one issue. For issues requiring multi-departmental management, we must clarify the leading department and distinguish primary and secondary responsibilities. We must improve the coordination mechanisms between departments. We must decisively accelerate the process of separating government from enterprises, assets, affairs, and intermediary organizations in the market, transfer issues that should not be managed by the government, and effectively manage issues that should be managed by the government, to better utilize the role of the market in resource allocation and citizens and social organizations in public affairs management, and to more effectively provide public goods.
(3) Exploring the big department system and improving the administrative operating mechanism. The reform of government institutions primarily involves streamlining and unifying the structure according to the principles of decision-making, implementation, and supervision, focusing on functional transformation and smoothing the relationship of responsibilities to further optimize the government's organizational structure, standardize institutional arrangements, explore an organic unified system of large departments, and improve the administrative operating mechanism.
(4) Enhancing administrative law enforcement and institutional construction. Strictly enforce the law in administration and insist on managing power, affairs, and people with regulations. Improve the supervision mechanism, reinforce accountability, and ensure that power is exercised responsibly, with oversight, and breaches of the law are pursued. Further accelerate the building of a rule of law government; implement government performance management and administrative accountability system; improve administrative power supervision system; strengthen the construction of civil servant teams.
2. State Council Institutional Reform Plan
According to the spirit of the 17th National Congress of the Party and the second plenary session of the 17th Central Committee, the main task of this institutional reform of the State Council is to focus on transforming government functions and streamlining departmental responsibilities, to explore an organic unified system of large departments, to reasonably allocate the functions of macro-control departments, to strengthen energy and environmental management organizations, to integrate and improve the industrial and information, transportation industry management system, focusing on improving people's livelihood, and strengthen and integrate social management and public service departments.
(1) Reasonably allocating functions of macro-control departments. The National Development and Reform Commission should further transform its functions, reduce micro-management affairs and specific approval items, and focus on macro-control. The Ministry of Finance should reform and improve budget and taxation management, improve the system where central and local finances match their responsibilities, and improve the public finance system. The People's Bank of China should further improve the monetary policy system, strengthen the coordination with financial regulatory departments, and protect national financial security. The National Development and Reform Commission, the Ministry of Finance, the People's Bank of China and other departments should establish and improve a coordination mechanism, forming a more perfect macro-control system.
(2) Strengthening energy management institutions...



Establish a high-level decision-making coordination body, the National Energy Commission. The National Energy Administration is set up and managed by the National Development and Reform Commission. The responsibilities and organizations related to the energy industry management of the National Development and Reform Commission, the responsibilities of the office of the National Energy Leadership Group, and the nuclear power management responsibilities of the National Defense Science and Technology Industry Commission are integrated and incorporated into the Administration. The work of the office of the National Energy Commission is to be undertaken by the National Energy Administration. The National Energy Leadership Group and its office will no longer be retained.

(3) Establish the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology. The responsibilities related to the industrial industry management of the National Development and Reform Commission, the duties other than nuclear power management of the National Defense Science and Technology Industry Commission, the responsibilities of the Ministry of Information Industry and the Office of Informatization of the State Council are integrated and transferred to the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology. The National Defense Science and Technology Industry Bureau is established and managed by the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology. The State Tobacco Monopoly Administration will be managed by the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology. The National Defense Science and Technology Industry Commission, the Ministry of Information Industry, and the Office of the State Council Informatization are no longer retained.

(4) Establish the Ministry of Transport. The responsibilities of the Ministry of Transport, the Civil Aviation Administration of China, and the urban passenger transport guiding duties of the Ministry of Construction are consolidated and incorporated into the Ministry of Transport. The National Civil Aviation Administration is established and managed by the Ministry of Transport. The State Post Bureau will be managed by the Ministry of Transport. The Ministry of Railways will be retained and reform will continue. The Ministry of Transport and the Civil Aviation Administration of China will no longer be retained.

(5) Establish the Ministry of Human Resources and Social Security. The responsibilities of the Ministry of Personnel and the Ministry of Labor and Social Security are integrated and incorporated into the Ministry of Human Resources and Social Security. The National Civil Servant Bureau is set up and managed by the Ministry of Human Resources and Social Security. The Ministry of Personnel and the Ministry of Labor and Social Security are no longer retained.

(6) Establish the Ministry of Environmental Protection.



The State Environmental Protection Administration will no longer be retained.
(7) Establishment of the Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development. The Ministry of Construction is no longer retained.
(8) The State Food and Drug Administration will be managed by the Ministry of Health. The Ministry of Health is clearly responsible for the comprehensive coordination of food safety and the organization of serious food safety incidents.
3. Five Major Changes in Administrative Management System
The reform of China's administrative management system, as an important part of the national reform, will show five aspects of changes.
Firstly, the management philosophy of the government is changing, and the administrative basis is moving towards science. It further transforms from the management concept of planned economy to that of socialist market economy. The change in philosophy is specifically manifested in: the change in the idea that the state-owned economy is the only form and essence of socialism, and the government turns from serving the state-owned economy to serving all economic components conducive to the development of productivity; the change in the idea that development is economic development, and the government devotes itself to grasping economic growth towards improving the quality and efficiency of the economy and the comprehensive coordinated development of the economy and society. This change has promoted a series of adjustments and reforms in the system and policies.
Secondly, the management scope has changed, and government functions are becoming more reasonable. Through the separation of government and enterprises, the reform of the state-owned assets management system, and the adjustment of the state-owned economy layout, the government has transformed from overall management to mainly engaged in economic regulation, market supervision, social management and public services; from direct participation and intervention in economic activities to effective macro-control, creating a market environment; from simply pursuing high-speed economic growth to promoting the integration of economic speed, quality, structure and benefits, and promoting the coordinated development of society and economy, and harmony between man and nature.
Thirdly, the administrative method has changed, and management means are constantly improving. The reform of the administrative approval system is promoted. The approval items of the central and provincial governments have been significantly reduced, new approval methods such as approval and registration for record-keeping are adopted, the approval process is standardized and simplified, and "one-stop" approval services and online approvals are provided.



Fourth, the administrative base has changed and government behavior has become more standardized. Since the reform and opening up, six sequential government organization reforms of varying intensity have taken place. These have reinforced the agencies involved in economic regulation and supervision, and social management services. They have reduced the overlapping responsibilities between departments, streamlined the number of government workers, and promoted the transformation of government functions and the enhancement of efficiency.

Fifth, the quality of the cadres has changed and administrative capabilities have effectively improved. A stringent selection mechanism for administrative staff or civil servants has been established, requiring all staff entering state administrative agencies to pass an examination. A scientifically sound selection and appointment mechanism for leadership cadres has been introduced, implementing public selection, competitive posts and other systems. The 2005 Civil Service Law of the People's Republic of China has become an important indicator of the civil service team's construction and management moving towards legalization.

4. Arrangements for Deepening Rural Reform

From October 9 to 12, 2008, the Third Plenary Session of the Seventeenth Central Committee of the Communist Party of China was held in Beijing. The plenary session made comprehensive arrangements for further deepening rural reforms on the new tasks proposed by the Seventeenth National Congress to achieve the goal of a comprehensive moderate prosperity society.

(1) The objectives and tasks of deepening rural reform. According to the new tasks proposed by the 17th National Congress to achieve the goal of a comprehensive moderately prosperous society and the requirements for the construction of a socialist new countryside with productive development, affluent living standards, civilized folk customs, neat village environment, and democratic management, the basic objective and task of rural reform and development by 2020 will be: A more robust rural economic system; a broadly established system for integrated urban and rural economic and social development; significant progress in modern agricultural construction, a noticeable increase in agricultural comprehensive production capability, effective ensuring of national food security and the supply of major agricultural products; doubling the per capita net income of farmers from 2008; substantial improvement in consumption level; basic eradication of absolute poverty; further strengthening of rural grassroots organisation construction; perfecting of the villagers' autonomy system, and real safeguarding of farmers' democratic rights; significant progress in the equalisation of basic public services in urban and rural areas; burgeoning rural culture; better implementation of the basic cultural rights and interests of farmers. Everyone in the rural areas has the opportunity to receive a good education; a more robust system of basic life security and basic medical and health system in rural areas; a further improvement of the rural social management system. A fundamental formation of resource-saving and environmentally friendly agricultural production system; noticeable improvement in rural living and ecological environment; continuous enhancement of sustainable development capacity.

(2) Major principles to be followed in deepening rural reform. To achieve the basic objectives and tasks of rural reform and development by 2020, the following major principles must be adhered to.

Firstly, we must consolidate and strengthen the basic position of agriculture and always regard solving the food problems of billions of people as the top priority for governing and ensuring the nation's wellbeing.



Insist on the policy of achieving basic food self-sufficiency based on domestic conditions, increase national support and protection for agriculture, deeply implement the strategy of revitalizing agriculture through science and education, accelerate the construction of modern agriculture, realize the stable development of agriculture in all aspects, and lay a solid foundation for promoting economic development, promoting social harmony, and safeguarding national security.
Secondly, it is necessary to genuinely safeguard the rights and interests of farmers, and always take the realization, maintenance, and development of the fundamental interests of the majority of farmers as the starting point and landing point of all work in rural areas. Adhere to the people-oriented principle, respect the will of farmers, focus on solving the most concerned, most direct, and most realistic interest issues of farmers, protect the political, economic, cultural, and social rights and interests of farmers, improve the comprehensive quality of farmers, promote the all-round development of farmers, fully tap the subject role and pioneering spirit of farmers, and rely heavily on millions of farmers to build a new socialist countryside.
Thirdly, it is necessary to continuously liberate and develop the productive forces in rural areas, and always take reform and innovation as the fundamental motivation for rural development. Persistently promote rural reform and system innovation, improve the scientific nature of reform decision-making, enhance the coordination of reform measures, give full play to the fundamental role of the market in resource allocation, strengthen and improve the national regulation and guidance of agricultural and rural development, improve the rural economic system that is in line with the requirements of the socialist market economy, adjust the production relations and superstructure that are not suitable for the development requirements of the rural social productive forces, and make the rural economic and social development full of vitality.
Fourthly, it is necessary to coordinate urban and rural economic and social development, and always focus on building a new relationship between workers and farmers and urban and rural areas as a major strategy for accelerating modernization. Coordinate the construction of industrialization, urbanization, and agricultural modernization, accelerate the establishment of a long-term mechanism for promoting agriculture by industries and driving rural areas by cities, adjust the distribution pattern of national income, consolidate and improve policies to strengthen agriculture and benefit farmers, focus national infrastructure construction and social services to rural areas, promote the equalization of basic public services in urban and rural areas, achieve coordinated development in urban and rural areas and regions, and enable the vast majority of farmers to participate in the modernization process and share the achievements of reform and development equally.
Fifthly, it is necessary to insist on the Party's management of rural work and always take strengthening and improving the Party's leadership over rural work as the political guarantee for promoting rural reform and development. Insist on starting from reality, adhere to the party's basic policy in rural areas, strengthen the construction of rural grass-roots organizations and grass-roots governance, perfect the system and methods of the Party's management of rural work, maintain the ties between the Party and the masses of farmers, strengthen the ruling foundation of the Party in rural areas, and form a strong joint force to promote rural reform and development.
(3) Making a comprehensive deployment of the construction and innovation of rural systems. The construction of systems has fundamental, overall, and long-term significance. The plenary session accurately grasped the basic national conditions and phased characteristics of the current development of the initial stage of socialism in our country, closely revolved around the major issues in the current rural reform and development, grasped the important areas and key links of rural system reform, and deployed six major system constructions, namely, stabilizing and improving the basic operation system in rural areas; improving the strict and standardized rural land management system; improving the agricultural support and protection system; establishing a modern rural financial system; establishing a system to promote the integration of urban and rural economic and social development; and improving the rural democratic management system.



The third plenary session of the 17th Central Committee of the Party outlined the goals, tasks, and key principles for deepening rural reform and development, system construction, as well as actively promoted modern agriculture and improved comprehensive agricultural production capabilities. The meeting also accelerated the development of rural public utilities, promoted the overall progress of rural society, enhanced and improved the Party's leadership, and provided robust political assurance for promoting rural reform and development. This series of new deployments provides an overall approach to further deepening rural reforms, representing pivotal strategic steps towards realizing rural development objectives and advancing modern agriculture unique to China. Accelerating the construction of a new socialist countryside and vigorously promoting the integrated development of urban and rural areas bear significant and far-reaching significance.

4. Summary of 30 Years of Reform and Opening Up and Thorough Implementation of the Scientific Development Outlook

At a time when the Chinese Communist Party Central Committee led by General Secretary Hu Jintao is leading the entire party and people in the struggle to build a moderately prosperous society, China celebrates the 30th anniversary of its reform and opening up. In the past 30 years, driven by reform and opening up, the Party has blazed a trail of socialism unique to China based on what was achieved in 29 years since the founding of New China, achieving globally recognized accomplishments.

On December 18, 2008, on behalf of the Party Central Committee, Hu Jintao scientifically summarized the achievements and basic experiences garnered over 30 years of reform and opening up. These achievements include: vigorously promoting systemic reform, successfully transitioning from a highly centralized planned economy to a vibrant socialist market economy; continually expanding our openness to foreign countries, and accomplishing a historic transition from closed and semi-closed to all-around openness; focusing on economic construction, elevating our overall national strength; focusing on ensuring and improving people's livelihoods, and generally achieving a moderately well-off level of life; fervently developing socialist democracy, which has better safeguarded the people's right to be the masters of their own affairs; energetically developing advanced socialist culture, further satisfying the ever-growing cultural needs of the people; vigorously developing social undertakings, consolidating and promoting social harmony and stability; adhering to the Party's absolute leadership over the army, making major achievements in national defense and army building; successfully implementing the basic principle of "one country, two systems", taking significant steps towards the peaceful reunification of the motherland; adhering to the peaceful foreign policy of independence and self-reliance, achieving major achievements in all-around diplomacy; insisting that the Party supervises its actions and governs strictly, the Party's leadership level and governing ability, resistance to corruption and risk resistance ability have greatly improved.

The experience of the past 30 years has fully demonstrated that through accommodating the baptism of the great revolution of reform and opening-up, the Chinese nation has caught up with the tide of the times, socialist China stands tall in the East of the world, and the Communist Party of China stands at the forefront of the times.

In the 30 years of reform, our country has been able to achieve such brilliant results and historic progress primarily due to the combination of the basic principles of Marxism with the specific reality of China, blazing our own trail, and building socialism with Chinese characteristics. During these 30 years of reform and opening up, through our hard exploration, we have accumulated valuable experience. This is clarified by the "Ten Combinations" stated by the 17th National Congress of the Party, namely:

The first is to combine the adherence to the basic principles of Marxism with the advancement of the sinicization of Marxism, both adhering to the basic principles of Marxism and constantly advancing the sinicization of Marxism in line with contemporary Chinese practices and the development of times, enabling Marxism to better guide the practice of developing socialism with Chinese characteristics and imbuing contemporary Chinese Marxism with vigor.



Second is to integrate adhering to the four basic principles with persisting in reform and opening up. The four basic principles ensure the right direction of reform and opening up, while also enriching them with new meanings in the current era through reform and opening up. We educate and guide the entire party and all the people across the nation to profoundly comprehend the dialectic relationship and significant meaning of adhering to the four basic principles and persisting in reform and opening up. We insist on uniting economic construction as the core along with the two pivotal points of sticking to the four basic principles and persisting in reform and opening up in the practice of developing socialism with Chinese characteristics.

Third is to combine respect for the pioneering spirit of the people with the strengthening and bettering of party leadership. We adhere to the scientific Marxist principle that it is the people who create history, genuinely representing the fundamental interests of the most extensive Chinese people, relying closely on the people, and broadly mobilize the enthusiasm, initiative, and creativity of the people. We garner strength and wisdom from the people and constantly strengthen and improve party leadership, ensuring that the party receives the people's full trust and support and always plays the core leading role.

Fourth is to combine insistence on the basic system of socialism with the development of a market economy. In the midst of deep and extensive reform, we persist in the basic system of socialism while also developing a market economy under socialist conditions, guiding economic activities to follow the requirements of value laws, constantly liberating and developing the productive forces of society, enhancing comprehensive national strength, improving the standard of living of the people, and better realizing the central task of economic construction.

Fifth is to combine advancing the economic base's transformation with promoting the reform of superstructure. We vigorously promote economic system reform and political system reform, develop socialist democracy, build a socialist country ruled by law, ensure that the people are the masters, and continuously push the superstructure of our country's socialism to adapt to the economic base, providing institutional guarantees and legal protection for reform and opening up and socialist modernization.

Sixth is to combine the development of social productivity with the improvement of the whole nation's civilization level. We emphasize both the development of material beings, i.e., the development of social productivity, and the development of humans, i.e., the improvement of the whole nation's civilization level. We insist on both material civilization and spiritual civilization, vigorously developing socialist culture, building a socialist spiritual civilization, striving to cultivate citizens with ideals, morals, culture, and discipline, providing strong spiritual motivation and intellectual support for economic and social development.

Seventh is to integrate improving efficiency with promoting social fairness. We highly value promoting development through efficiency enhancement and promoting social harmony through realizing social fairness based on economic development. We insist on a people-oriented approach, focusing on solving the most relevant, direct, and realistic interest issues of the people, striving to develop social undertakings, striving to perfect income distribution systems, safeguarding and improving people's livelihood, pursuing the path of common prosperity, and striving to create a situation where everyone does their best, gets their due, and lives harmoniously.

Eighth is to integrate upholding independence with participating in economic globalization. We highly cherish and steadfastly maintain the independence and autonomy of the Chinese people, which has been achieved through long-term struggle, while we also stick to the basic national policy of opening up to the outside world. We consistently scrutinize the development of China and the world from the perspective of the connection between international affairs and domestic affairs, think and formulate China's development strategy, adhere to an independent foreign policy of peace, adhere to the path of peaceful development, adhere to a win-win strategy of opening-up, and promote the construction of a harmonious world of enduring peace and common prosperity.

Ninth is to combine promoting reform and development with maintaining social stability. While vigorously promoting reform and development, we correctly deal with the relationship among reform, development, and stability. We insist that reform is the driving force, development is the goal and stability is the premise. We insist on reconciling the intensity of reform, the pace of development, and the degree to which society can bear them. We regard consistently improving people's livelihood as the important nexus for dealing with the relationships among reform, development, and stability. We promote reform and development in social stability and promote social stability through reform and development.



The "tenth combination" promotes the great cause of Socialism with Chinese Characteristics and advances the new great construction of the Party, both advancing the construction of the Party around the aim of Socialism with Chinese Characteristics and progressing Socialism with Chinese Characteristics through strengthening and improving the construction of the Party, constantly improving the Party's ruling capacity, maintaining and developing the Party's vanguard nature, consistently enhancing the Party's class basis and expanding its mass base, continuously improving its ability to prevent corruption and resist risks, thus ensuring the Party always remains the strong leading core of the cause of Socialism with Chinese Characteristics.

These "ten combinations" are a new summary enriched with the spirit of the times. In summary, they creatively explore and answer major theoretical and practical questions such as: What is Marxism? How to treat Marxism? What is socialism? How to build socialism? What kind of party should be built? How to build the party? What kind of development should be achieved? How to develop, etc. One of the important characteristics is that it reflects the concept of the "combination" during the second historical leap, which is a specific exposition of the general requirement of combining the basic principles of Marxism with contemporary China's practice and characteristics of the times. The "ten combinations" are precious experiences of poverty alleviation, accelerating modernization, consolidating and developing socialism by our country with a population of more than one billion, and they are also extremely valuable spiritual wealth obtained after long-term practice and hard exploration by the Party and the people. Hu Jintao's historic summary of 30 years of reform and opening up is building on previous achievements, with profound thoughts, rich connotations, strong theoretical, strategic and guiding significance. It shines with the light of Marxist truth throughout, further enriching the theoretical system of Socialism with Chinese characteristics is the programmatic document guiding our country to continue to push forward the great cause of reform and opening up.

By drawing from and continuing to apply these precious experiences, constantly enriching and developing them in the practice of building Socialism with Chinese Characteristics, sticking to the principles of liberation of thinking, seeking truth from facts, keeping pace with the times, having the courage to reform, having the courage to innovate, never becoming rigid, never stagnating, not being afraid of any risks, not being confused by any interference, the development and innovation of the Chinese Communist Party's guiding ideology will achieve greater success. 

Summarizing the historical experiences of the Communist Party of China in governing the country and in carrying out reforms and opening up, has enabled the Communist Party of China to take a big step forward in the path of sinicization of Marxism. In turn, the new development of sinicization of Marxism boosts the Communist Party of China to constantly form new understandings of the laws of reform, opening up, and socialist modernization construction of our country.

The new understanding comes from new practice. During the "Eleventh Five-Year Plan" period, faced with a complex domestic and foreign situation and a series of major risks and challenges, the Communist Party of China united and led the people of all ethnic groups in the country to push forward reform and opening up and socialist modernization construction, and the country historic changes took place in the outlook. Our country's social productivity, comprehensive national strength have significantly improved, various social undertakings have accelerated their development, people's lives have significantly improved, great progress has been made in reform and opening up, and the international status and influence have significantly improved. Manned space flight, lunar exploration projects, the development of supercomputers and other cutting-edge technologies have achieved major breakthroughs, and significant achievements have been made in the modernization of national defense and the armed forces. Especially, these accomplishments were made under the difficult conditions of frequent natural disasters such as the impact of the international financial crisis, the massive earthquakes in Wenchuan and Yushui, and the deadly mudslide in Zhouqu.



Based on the summarization of the achievements and experiences, in October 2010, The Fifth Plenary Session of the 17th Communist Party of China passed the "Proposals for Formulating the 12th Five-Year Plan for National Economic and Social Development," explicitly proposing that the guiding ideology for the formulation of the "Twelfth Five-Year" Plan is: holding high the great banner of socialism with Chinese characteristics, guided by Deng Xiaoping Theory and the "Three Represents." The implementation of the scientific development concept adapts to new changes in domestic and international situations, catering to new expectations of people of all ethnic groups for a better life. The plan focuses on deepening reform and opening up, guaranteeing and improving people's livelihood, and consolidating and expanding the achievements in response to the impact of the international financial crisis. In turn, this promotes long-term, sustained, and rapid economic development and social harmony and stability, laying a decisive foundation for building a moderately prosperous society in all respects. 

In March 2011, The 4th Session of the 11th National People's Congress reviewed and approved the "Outline of the 12th Five-Year Plan for National Economic and Social Development of the People's Republic of China." The "Twelfth Five-Year" Plan outline approved by the Congress, firmly rooted in socialism with Chinese characteristics and guided by Deng Xiaoping Theory and the "Three Represents," deeply implements the concept of scientific development, adheres to the strategic economic structure adjustment as the main direction for accelerating the transformation of the economic development mode, maintains the improvement of people's livelihood as the fundamental starting point and landing point for accelerating the transformation of economic development, stresses constructing resources-saving and environmentally friendly society as a key point to accelerate the change of economic development mode, and insists on reform and opening up as a powerful force for accelerating the transformation of economic development. The outline clearly defines the main goals of China's economic and social development during the "Twelfth Five-Year" period and outlines a development blueprint for the next five years. The outline also specifically identifies the main goals of China's economic and social development for the following five years. These goals not only organically combine the five-year and ten-year perspectives, as well as the current and long-term, but also closely link with the struggle goals of comprehensively building a moderately prosperous society, comprehensively considering future development trends and conditions.

Looking at the "Twelfth Five-Year" Plan, the magnificent blueprint is inspiring, and the grand goal motivates people to forge ahead. The action program formulated by the central government, with a practical and inspiring touch, clearly outlines the action roadmap for the third Five-Year in the new century, showing the direction for China's future development and filling the people of all ethnic groups with hope for the future of socialist China.