Chapter One Extension and Preparation: The Tortuous Process and Reasons for the Sinicization of Marxism from 1949 to 1978
The 13th National Congress of the Party proposed the important viewpoint of two leaps in the Sinicization of Marxism, that is, "The integration of Marxism and our country's practice has gone through more than sixty years. During this process, there were two historic leaps. The first leap occurred during the period of the New Democratic Revolution", "The second leap took place after the Third Plenum of the 11th Central Committee". Then, between the two leaps, namely, from the establishment of New China to the Third Plenum of the 11th Central Committee of the Party, how should the process and characteristics of the Sinicization of Marxism be summarized? Gong Yuzhi once pointed out that this is the period of “the extension of the first leap and the preparation (or brewing) for the second leap". This is a conclusion that can stand scrutiny.
I. The Four Stages of the 29-year Process of Sinicization of Marxism
The Sinicization of Marxism is a historical category, with different contents, focuses, objects, and targets in different historical periods. To examine this process and the characteristics of each stage is the prerequisite for revealing its developmental laws. Based on the understanding of Marxism and socialism and the model choices and practices determined by this during different periods from 1949 to 1978, the Sinicization of Marxism in these 29 years can be roughly divided into four stages.
The first stage: the period of implementing the new democratic national construction program (1949—1952). In the first three years of the founding of New China, under the guidance of the new democracy theory produced by the first leap of the Sinicization of Marxism, the party fully implemented the New Democratic National Outline stipulated by the "Common Program of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference" (hereinafter referred to as the "Common Program"). Economically, starting from the very backward level of productivity at the time, a policy of public-private coexistence, mutual benefit of labor and capital, urban-rural mutual aid, and domestic and foreign exchanges was implemented based on the priority development of the state-owned economy. Under the leadership of the state-owned economy, various economic components coexist, plans and markets coexist, and various forms of distribution and accumulation coexist. At the same time, the implementation of the political and cultural program of new democracy ensures the basic adaptation of productive forces and relations of production, and the superstructure and economic base.
The new democratic national construction outline is based on the victorious new democratic revolution, with the transition to socialism as its goal, and prepares the necessary conditions for the establishment of socialism in political, economic, and cultural aspects on the basis of semi-colonial and semi-feudal society through the full development of new democracy. Its distinct feature is the correct treatment of capitalism, the national bourgeoisie, the market economy, and the peasant individual economy. The state does not generally eliminate capitalism, but encourages the business initiative of all private enterprises that are beneficial to national and public welfare. It implements a mixed economy, allows the coexistence of the market and plan, state, cooperative, and private economics, and individual and cooperative economies, and flourish together. In these respects, it is very close to Lenin's new economic policy and his theories about the transition period after 1921, and Marx's theory of Oriental societies. Considering its realistic and pragmatic thinking, it even embodies the essence of Marxism. The three years of economic recovery and social transformation have achieved miraculous achievements. When people marvel at this achievement, they should also pay great attention to the guidelines and system designs by which this achievement was made. "When the Common Program was first formulated, people doubted whether we were really going to implement the Common Program, but in these three years we truly implemented the Common Program, so the Common Program has good credibility among the people and all parties."
The implementation of the New Democratic National Construction Program, although only a short three-year period, is a brilliant chapter in the Sinicization of Marxism. It greatly enriches the theory of the transition to socialism through a special path in backward countries. It has distinct Chinese characteristics in both form and content. It represents the Chinese Communists, represented by Mao Zedong, consciously combining the basic principles of Marxism with the reality of China and independently creating a model different from the European revolutionary road.
Phase Two: The Era of Emulating the Soviet Model (1953-1956). Starting in 1953, based on the urgent needs caused by the changing domestic and international situations, as well as the experiences from Soviet socialist construction and contemporary understanding of socialism, the Central Committee of the Party proposed a transition strategy to gradually achieve national socialist industrialization and implement socialist transformations in the agriculture, handicraft, and capitalist industry sectors. In terms of economic construction, the strategy chose to prioritize the development of heavy industry. Regarding social transformation, it selected the policy of transforming capitalist industries through state capitalism and peaceful redemption, and reshaping agriculture and individual handicraft industry through phased transitions. Guided by this strategy, it laid the initial foundation for industrialization and successfully forged a path for socialist transformation suitable for China's conditions, thereby smoothly achieving the socialist objective. This was another great triumph secured by the Chinese communists, led by Mao Zedong, which signifies an important achievement in adapting Marxism to Chinese conditions.
Looking from the perspective of model choice, if we say that the first three years were closer to Lenin's New Economic Policy model, then after 1953, the Stalin model became the basic reference and standard. This is what Mao Zedong often said later as "mainly learning from foreign experience", and being "basically consistent with the Soviet model, differing only in details". Especially in economic construction and heavy industry, "almost everything was copied from the Soviet Union, with very little original creation", demonstrating "a lack of creativity, a lack of independent capability.” Its political and social transformations emphasized the Soviet model, eliminating capitalism and individual production in agriculture and handicraft industries, implementing a single socialist public ownership system, and limiting the scope and depth of the commodity economy. This is what was meant when they said that the transition strategy was to resolve the issue of ownership, namely to make private ownership "gradually become illegal", "to exterminate capitalism, to eradicate small-scale production", and so forth.

The third phase: Reforming the Soviet Model and Exploring an Independent Construction Path (1956-1966). Starting in 1956, in the wave of reforms in socialist countries worldwide, considering the issues revealed in the Soviet model, when our country commenced comprehensive socialist construction, like the first time emulating and breaking away from the Soviet model during the democratic revolution, Mao Zedong again sharply put the task of breaking the Soviet model and combining Marxism with Chinese realities before the entire Party. He pointed out that: "Now we have our own initial practical experience, plus the experience and lessons from the Soviet Union, we should emphasize even more on the whole Party to proceeding from China’s national conditions, making efforts in integration, 'to carry out a second integration, to find the correct path for conducting socialist revolution and construction in China''.
Marked by the convening of the 8th National Congress of the Communist Party of China (CPC) and the publication of significant historical documents such as "On the Ten Major Relationships" and "On Correctly Handling Intraparty Contradictions", China began the initial reform of the Soviet model. As a result, 1956 became a peak of the localization of Marxism in the socialist era in China. The entire party "learned from the Soviet Union," liberated their minds, and sought to find a path to socialist construction in line with Chinese characteristics under the prerequisite of breaking away from complete dependence on the Soviet model. Mao Zedong later mentioned several times that the construction of the economy in the early years was mainly based on learning from foreign experiences, presenting their own construction line starting from "On the Ten Major Relationships" in 1956, and forming their own set of contents.
Thanks to the CPC's tremendous creative spirit and innovative capabilities, around the 8th National Congress, the party proposed some new and vital perspectives and guidelines on the development of the economy, politics, culture, and science, which yielded preliminary results from the reform. Of course, due to limitations of the era, the newly initiated reforms couldn't address fundamental flaws in the traditional system and could only make minor, local, and remedial adjustments within its basic framework. This means the "principle was the same as the Soviet Union, but the methods were different."
The shaking of the authoritative status of the Soviet model provided space and energy for liberating thoughts. However, merely liberating thoughts isn't enough for a successful reform; it also needs other important conditions, such as a mature understanding, correct ideology, party's internal and external democracy, and necessary experience – including lessons from mistakes. It was due to this lack of conditions that despite the strong desire to liberate thoughts, oppose dogmatism, and explore their own path, the result was often the absolutization of their own experience, replacing some doctrines with another, and returning to some more traditional concepts. Consequently, the breakthrough of the traditional model led to serious mistakes in class struggle and economic construction during the socialist era, which usually reduced the localization of Marxism in China to dogmatism and empiricism. From a formal perspective, daring experiments like the "Great Leap Forward" and the People's Commune were indeed different from the traditional model, but they often simply replicated the utopian visions of critical writers in the 19th century and experiences from the war years, or even drew inspiration from ancient Chinese society for building a future society, essentially embodying an extreme version of the traditional model.
From the end of 1958 to 1960, in the process of summarizing experience and correcting "leftist" errors, the whole Communist Party deepened its understanding of distribution according to work and the law of value, emphasizing the importance of combining public ownership, a commodity economy, and planning for socialist construction. During the adjustment period in the early 1960s, Mao Zedong proposed to the whole party again: "We must combine the universal truth of Marxism-Leninism with the specific reality of socialist construction in China and with the specific reality of future world revolution as best as possible, step by step understanding the objective laws of struggle from practice. We must be prepared to suffer many failures and setbacks due to blindness, thereby gaining experience and ultimately achieving victory." Responding to the call of the Central Committee, the whole party diligently studied, relearned, promoted extensive investigative research, summarized experiences, and conducted comprehensive and profound adjustments. Through reflection on the "Great Leap Forward" and the People's Commune movement, within just a few years, the whole party, starting from the national condition and focusing on the standard of productivity, made adjustments to industries such as agriculture and manufacturing, and also adjusted internal and external political relations within the Party. The development of a large number of regulations spanning multiple industries, represented by the "Regulations for the Work of Rural People's Communes (Revised Draft)" (briefly "Sixty Points on Agriculture"), the frontline leaders' support for "responsibility fields" and "production to the household", Mao Zedong's new understanding of the development stage of socialism, Liu Shaoqi's realistic assessment of the difficult situation and its causes, and Deng Xiaoping's opinion on determining the form of production relations according to whether production can be recovered and developed relatively quickly and whether the masses are willing, all contributed to the development of socialism. The socialist view reflected by Sun Yefang and Zhang Wentian, among others, on the concept that the socialist commodity economy is a "planned commodity economy", developed an understanding of socialism, incorporated some basic ideas and approaches for China's future reform, and marked another peak in the sinicization of Marxism during the socialist period. It is conceivable that if the adjustment continues to deepen, the second leap forward in sinicization might appear earlier.
The adjustment began by correcting the severe confusion caused by the "Great Leap Forward" and the People's Commune movement in various aspects, so its initial emphasis was more on the restoration and return of traditional systems and orders. The substantial reform of the traditional system was still in its budding stage. As the adjustment deepened, some deep-rooted questions about "What is Socialism?" surfaced, and the sinicization of Marxism was facing a major choice: to promote theoretical innovation while advancing the adjustment, breaking the bondage of traditional ideas, and achieving a second leap; or use traditional concepts to measure new phenomena and problems that emerge during the adjustment, thereby denying the budding reforms that appear in the adjustment. Because the conditions for socialist reform worldwide were not yet ripe, and some traditional ideas were still deeply constraining people's minds, "a few deep-rooted traditional ideas had not been broken through". Using these concepts and even 19th-century classical authors' future social visions to measure the theory and practice of adjustment, to judge socialist reform, as a result, some substantial reform measures and points of view were treated as "revisionism" challenging the orthodox status of Marxism. At a time when there was an urgent need to liberalize the mind, gather wide-ranging opinions, explore and innovate, internal and external democracy within the party was shrinking due to the expansion of class struggle. It was under the influence of many factors that the deepening of the adjustment led to serious estimates of the situation of class struggle. In this way, on the one hand, there was the gradual deepening of the adjustments and a certain degree of correction of "leftist" mistakes, while on the other hand, the development of the mistake of expanding class struggle. The interaction of these two factors, coupled with some international factors, made it difficult to curb the development of the latter, which eventually led to the occurrence of the "Cultural Revolution".
Phase Four: The Period of the "Cultural Revolution" (1966—1976). In a severe estimate of the situation, the "Cultural Revolution" aimed to reach "great harmony" through "great chaos". The development model of "promoting revolution and promoting production" established by it was indeed different from the traditional model, but it also completely deviated from the correct direction of socialist reform. The criticisms of "capitalism", "revisionism", "capitalist roaders", "material incentives", "profit in command", "bonus in command", and "household contracting" during the movement, and the restrictions on the commodity economy, monetary exchange and "bourgeois rights", and various differences all show the detachment from modern society. The Cultural Revolution took the "left" mistakes that had developed over the previous ten years to the extreme, and it was a wrong response to the budding reforms of the 1950s and 1960s in China and the reform tide in other socialist countries. While it appears to have a strong Chinese flavor in form, in reality it both deviated from China's actual situation and deviated from the essence of Marxism, leading the Sinicization of Marxism astray.
During the ten years, the healthy forces in the party resisted and fought against the turmoil and ultra-left thinking, adhering to the correct direction of the Sinicization of Marxism in a difficult environment. A series of policies proposed in the two rectifications led by Zhou Enlai and Deng Xiaoping are an important link in the extension of the Sinicization of Marxism.
The Cultural Revolution took the mistakes that both deviated from Marxism and were not in line with China's national conditions to the extreme, thus clarifying and simplifying some long-standing confusing issues, which prepared sufficient conditions for the final correction of these mistakes. "Without the lessons of the 'Cultural Revolution', it would be impossible to formulate the ideological, political, and organizational line and a series of policies that have been in place since the third plenary session of the 11th Central Committee", the "'Cultural Revolution' has become our wealth", "it has become a great classroom for the nation".
In the two years after the end of the "Cultural Revolution", with the criticism of the "two whatever's" and the discussion of the criterion of truth as a form, an unprecedented ideological liberation movement emerged nationwide and throughout the Party. The movement completely shook the traditional views that had long bound people, broke through the shackles of dogmatism, and re-established and affirmed the ideological line of liberating thought and seeking truth from facts advocated by Mao Zedong. The great ideological liberation movement laid a solid foundation for the second leap of Sinicization of Marxism and the successful socialist reform. All of this can be seen as a rich compensation for previous arduous exploration.
II. The Dilemma of Choosing the Socialist Reform Model
A well-tested and creative major Marxist party, a leadership collective that went through various twists and turns in the period of the democratic revolution, finally realized the sinicization of Marxism, and successfully led the new democratic revolution, a major party that, after the founding of New China for 29 years, persevered in arming itself with Marxist theory, emphasized the emancipation of the mind, sought truth from facts, and took the sinicization of Marxism as its own responsibility. Why, however, did it fail to make the second leap after 29 years of the founding of New China? Among many reasons, two should be particularly noted, namely, the delay in the modernization of the socialist model and the lag in the contemporaneity of Marxism.
For the international communist movement and socialist countries, 1956 was a year to start massive reforms of the traditional Soviet socialist model. "Starting from 1956, the umbilical cord that had linked all Communist Parties to the Soviet Union as their only source of nutrition was severed. Each party then began to formulate its own attitude towards communist theory and practice." In the communist movement, a "multi-centered" situation has emerged. "People no longer talk about a unique leadership, on the contrary, they are talking about the progress made by different paths." "The Soviet model can no longer, and should not be a model that must be followed.” Since then, although socialist countries have been greatly influenced by the traditional model in general, they have at least begun to transition from one model to multiple models.
The sacred halo of the traditional model has disappeared, the authority of the Marxist theoretical system interpreted by the Soviet Communist Party has weakened, and with the liberation of thought and lively theory, there has also been a certain degree of model vacuum. This not only unbinds the communist parties and labor parties in various countries to a certain extent, expands the space for various forms of nationalization of Marxism, but also loses the standard answers that can be relied on and referenced. Due to the different levels of economic development, historical and cultural traditions, and geo-conditions of each country, there are many differences in understanding and reform of the traditional model (i.e., the Stalin model). In order to find a development path suitable for themselves, they refer to the Soviet model while also more often seeking answers directly from the original works of Marx and Engels or drawing inspiration from the country's historical and cultural traditions and contemporary world civilization. Regardless of how many twists and turns and mistakes were made in the reform at that time, no matter how it developed later, it is still commendable to independently seek a path suitable for its own socialist revolution and construction under new historical conditions. Even the Soviet model, which remained mainstream during the 1950s to 70s, differed from the traditional model before 1956.
The reforms in countries such as the Soviet Union have been going back and forth for more than 20 years, stumbling along. Although some progress has been made, due to the constraints of traditional thinking, no substantial progress has been made in addressing basic theoretical issues such as the structure of ownership in socialist societies, planned economy and market economy, highly centralized power, eagerness for success, issues of the times, class struggle, and transition to communism until the 1980s. Reforms often degenerate into repeated modifications of the periphery of the traditional system, complacency in some improvement of the planned economy, and seldom touch the core of the old model. 
For China, the situation in 1956 was a unique dual transformation: one, the center of work shifted from revolution to comprehensive socialist construction; two, the construction model shifted from copying tradition to exploring its own development path. The dual transformation has significantly increased the difficulty of sinicizing Marxism compared to the "nationwide upsurge in learning about the Soviet Union" that was called for in 1953. It requires a questioning and reform-minded perspective on everything that is being established according to the Soviet model and emphasizes independent and innovative model development. This not only provides us with a historic opportunity to free our minds and achieve a second leap, but it also adds to the difficulty of model selection and expands the space for the influence of historical and cultural traditions. Just as the realization of the sinicization of Marxism during the democratic revolution period was based on the new democracy theory, whether or not the second leap could be made during the socialist period, the standard was whether the socialist path with Chinese characteristics could be found.
Under the guidance of the Eighth National Congress of the Communist Party of China, China's construction and reform have achieved new achievements after 1956, the drawbacks of Stalin's model have been corrected, Mao Zedong Thought has developed, and the sinicization of Marxism has continued. However, due to the influence of dogmatism and empiricism, a tendency to correct the traditional model from another direction in order to be more "pure" and "radical" has also developed. In the great debate on the international communist movement in the 1960s, a socialist model that was neither in line with the Soviet model nor in line with Chinese conditions and contemporary socialist reform trends gradually became clear: equating socialism with a single public ownership structure and a highly centralized planned economy; treating the existence and development of private capital and private enterprises within a certain range as developing capitalism; regarding the emphasis on profits, prices, market adjustments, material interests, and other economic means, narrowing the range of planned adjustments, and engaging in trade with capitalist countries within a certain range as capitalism and revisionism; regarding class struggle as the main contradiction and driving force of socialism... The effort to break away from the Soviet model lost its proper direction. Under the examination of this more extreme standard than the traditional model, it was logical to constantly deepen vigilance and worry about the restoration of capitalism, and the "struggle class" mentality took the upper hand. In June 1966, Mao Zedong once said that more than a hundred parties worldwide had become revisionists and no longer believed in Marx and Lenin. The basis for this judgment was largely to regard the traditional model or a more extreme model as the standard for evaluating whether something was "socialist" or "capitalist," and all reforms of it - some of which had indeed veered off-direction - were regarded as "revisionism." During the "Cultural Revolution," this model appeared in an even more extreme form.
Looking at the development of China's politics and economy from 1956 to 1978, you can see a cyclical development of "left" - correcting the "left" - "left" developing again - correcting the "left" once more. This cycle is actually an external manifestation of the dilemma of model selection, reflecting both the difficulty of transitioning from traditional to contemporary socialist models and the difficulty of the second integration of Marxism with Chinese reality.
Reforms of socialism usually arise when socialism has developed to a certain extent and conflicts with the original model. The sharper this conflict, the stronger the demand for reform, and the earlier it appears. The Soviet reform occurred nearly forty years after the October Revolution and nearly twenty years after the completion of socialist transformation. Eastern European countries, especially those whose economic development level was higher than that of old Russia, felt constrained by the Soviet model from the start, and the conflict became more prominent after the 1950s. "Between 1955 and 1956, the negative ramifications of the old and outdated management system were already clearly visible, and of a considerably serious degree...These ramifications were even catastrophic in some productive sectors." The reforms that first arose in Soviet Eastern European countries reflect and result from these conflicts. In other words, in terms of the conditions for reform, countries like the Soviet Eastern Europe were obviously more mature than China.
China entered the era of reform just as it began to fully undertake socialist construction according to the Soviet model. As socialism's political and economic systems were still undeveloped, the drawbacks of the Soviet model were not prominent, and the conflicts it caused were not as sharp as those in Soviet Eastern Europe. "We can only understand under the conditions of our era, and to what extent these conditions have been met, is how far we can go in understanding." Given China's developmental level at the time, although some preliminary reform ideas could be put forward, it was not enough to profoundly understand the reform practices being carried out in Soviet Eastern Europe. For example, it was not easy to deeply understand the limitations of a highly centralized planned economy that had just been established; to make those who had just undergone the three major transformations to value the necessary complementary role of a certain number of individual economies to socialism and the positive role of the market economy; to deeply understand that full public ownership established by relying on state power could not be equated to direct state management of enterprises; to deeply understand the significance of vigorously developing the commodity economy for socialism, for those who had not gone through the stage of highly developed commodity economy and had only obtained knowledge about socialist commodity production from some classic authors in books. Although there were insightful views within the party at that time, they did not become mainstream. It was under this background that the roles of dogmatism, empiricism, and traditional culture stood out.
The reform began with the traditional model, but ended up on a more rigid path, and one important reason was the immature conditions for socialist reform (i.e., model modernization). A deeper reason lies in the lag behind contemporary Marxism.
III. The lag behind in the modernization of Marxism
The sinicization (localization) of Marxism inherently includes the modernization of Marxism. Moreover, only when Marxism is modernized, can sinicization (localization) be scientifically realized. The so-called modernization of Marxism is to combine Marxism with the development and characteristics of the current era. When Mao Zedong proposed the proposition and mission of the "sinicization" of Marxism at the Sixth Plenary Session of the Sixth CPC Central Committee, he emphasized nationality, regional characteristics, and stressed "flexible application according to Chinese characteristics", but did not particularly emphasize the era. Because at that time, it was still in the era of imperialism, war, and revolution mentioned by Lenin, that is, the era had not yet changed. Therefore, "On the issue of applying and developing Marxism, the emphasis is on application; on the issue of the nationalization and modernization of Marxism, the main focus is on nationalization." However, after the founding of New China, the era and the theme of the era have undergone tremendous changes, and the issue of modernization, which is the premise of the sinicization of Marxism, stands out. Unlike the first leap, the second leap of the sinicization of Marxism can only be realized after resolving the modernization of Marxism. The twists and turns of the reforms in socialist countries from the 1950s to the 70s, as well as the direct reason why our country failed to complete the second leap of the sinicization of Marxism, are mainly due to the dogmatization of Marxism; and the deeper reason lies in the failure to promote the modernization of Marxism according to the changes of the times. The twists and turns of the model change are nothing more than the external manifestation of the dilemma of theoretical development.
A traditional view holds that Marxism itself is a complete scientific system, and the development of it by future generations can only be within the original framework, on some specific issues, carrying out limbic development, revisions, and enrichment. This understanding reduces the level, scope, and degree of the development of Marxism, and weakens the urgency and importance of the modernization of Marxism in the new era. After the founding of New China, for some reason, "Sinicisation of Marxism" was changed to "Concrete application of Marxism in China". Although there is no substantial difference between these two expressions, the term "concretization" can easily give an impression: under the conditions of major changes in the era, the historical task of sinicizing Marxism seems to be just a "concretization" or "concrete application" issue, and the basic principles of Marxism (or general principles) are only static, unchanging, and solidified objects. The question about whether there is a contemporaneous modernization under the new historical conditions is often downplayed. Within such a background, it is hard to avoid dogmatism, hard to advance the cause of modernizing Marxism, and difficult to complete the second leap of Sinicization of Marxism.
Marxism is a multi-level theoretical system. Within it, there is the highest level, long-term stable, universally significant basic theoretical part as well as a lower level with specific, less stable principles and categories. However, this distinction is often relative, because even some basic principles and methods pose a challenge of advancing with the times. Some principles that were considered fundamental decades ago are now only relatively significant. For instance, basic principles once deemed self-evident concerning capitalism, socialism, planned economy, epochal characteristics, working class, bourgeoisie, etc., apparently no longer possess a universal explanatory power. Certain categories and principles once regarded as fundamental in philosophy and economics have been proven to require development and supplementation. The difficulty lies in how to develop and modernize Marxism according to the needs of the times--on which levels, which aspects, within what scope, and to what extent? How do we judge the truth of this development? As mentioned in the theoretical system of Marxism, "How much can change, how far it can deviate from its original premise, and how much still maintains an organic connection with the original theory, is a difficult question." Because not only should Marxism be rethought or revised to maintain a close connection with the environment, it should also retain an intellectual or political connection with Marx's original doctrines or basic principles. "It is not always easy to reconcile these two needs," and any bias could lead to dogmatism or nihilism. Therefore, people are increasingly inclined to accept a perspective proposed by Lukács in 1919 in "History and Class Consciousness": "Orthodoxy in the issue of Marxism refers only to method. It is such a scientific belief that dialectical Marxism is the correct research method. This method can only develop, expand, and deepen in the direction set by its founders. Moreover, any attempt to overcome it or 'improve' it will only result in superficiality, mediocrity, and eclecticism." In addition, Lenin's classic statement cannot be ignored: "The era of arguing over socialist programs based on books has already passed for Russia, and I firmly believe it is irretrievable. Now we can only discuss socialism based on experience." These insights emphasize that Marxism should be developed innovatively and keep pace with the times, based on practical experience. They help expand the space for the development of Marxism and avoid confining the development to mere adjustments at the superficial and specific levels.
After the birth of Marxism, significant changes have occurred in its dissemination, practice, and development, while still inheriting and continuing in an unbroken lineage. Looking at it longitudinally, scholars in our country often divide this development into the stages of Marxism, Leninism, Stalinism, and stages represented by proletarian leaders such as Mao Zedong and Deng Xiaoping. In the West, such divisions are endless. For instance, the representative figure of Marxist sociology in the U.S., Mitchell Blovi, divided the development of Marxism into three periods: the classical Marxism era, the national socialism era, and the social socialism era, with the third phase of Marxism occurring from the mid-70s of the 20th century to the present. The famous postmodernist thinker in the USA, Frederick Jameson, thinks that different historical epochs will produce different forms of Marxism. He divided the development of Marxism into three stages: modernism, imperialism, and late capitalism.
From a horizontal perspective, in addition to the proletarian revolutionary leaders and Marxist theorists such as Lenin, Stalin, Mao Zedong, and Deng Xiaoping, who had a huge global impact in the 20th century, we should also respect the contributions of figures like Luxemburg, Lukacs, and Gramsci, as well as leaders of European Communism and Western Marxism, toward the development of Marxism. For instance, "Western Marxism," which emerged in the 1920s and peaked in the 1950s and 1960s, continued and amplified Marxism's critical tradition against capitalism in contemporary developed capitalist societies, breaking free from Soviet dogmatism and aiming to re-read, interpret and develop Marxism in the context of contemporary issues. They analyzed the new characteristics and issues of capitalism based on modern productive forces and scientific and technological foundations, foreseen the characteristics of future society, and critically analyzed the shortcomings and defects of the Soviet model. "Despite the differences or conflicts with traditional Marxist ideas and developments, which indeed contain some principal deviations from the basic content of Marxism, it is still an aspect of contemporary Marxist development in the West that cannot be ignored, with a clear sense of the times and reality. " As long as we don't adopt attitudes like "only I can reform" or "only I am a true Marxist," we can face up to the diversification of Marxism's development. As Fredric Jameson emphasized: "We should not forget that today, Marxism is not a single entity; there are indeed various forms of Marxist theoretical discourses." This diversity has invigorated Marxism, reflecting its ongoing evolution, facilitating its development and enrichment in various aspects, reflecting the needs of the times to different extents, and meeting the requirements of making Marxism contemporary.
After the Second World War, with the changes in the times and the rapid development of science and technology and productive forces, and with socialism facing the reform from traditional model to contemporary model and from one model to multiple models, Marxism is also facing a transition from the classic to the contemporary. Its main theme has begun to shift from revolution and war to peace and construction. This is analogous to Lenin's modernization of Marx's classic theory, which was born in the era of free capitalism, in the imperialist era of the early 20th century.
The modernization of Marxism can include two levels: one is, with the development of the times and practice, the development of some original theories of Marxist classical authors is based on a continuous foundation. This also includes their awareness of change and development. This can be classed as development at a basic theoretical level. For example, Marxist classical authors in the 1980s and 1990s of the 19th century greatly developed many contents of the 1940s and 1950s; there is a clear difference in Lenin's understanding of socialism during the period of "war communism" and the new economic policy. On the other hand, starting from different backgrounds such as the characteristics of the times and the national conditions, Marxists after Marx have different understandings, interpretations, and specific applications of classic theories. This can be classified as development at a more specific level. Among them, the former has more fundamental significance. Without its modernization, work on regionalization and nationalization can't be discussed.
The era is calling for the contemporization of Marxism, but the conditions were not quickly prepared for it. The twists and turns of China's exploration from the 1950s to the 1970s, and the stagnation and even failure of reforms in various socialist countries, to a certain extent, show that at that time, the conditions to break free from the severe restrictions of dogmatism were not mature. Therefore, the conditions for socialism to transition from the traditional model to the modern model, and for Marxism to transition from the classic to contemporary, were not mature. They still needed the accumulation of practice, the exposure of contradictions, the lessons of mistakes, and theoretical leaps.
Mao Zedong was a great proletarian revolutionary and theorist with a strong sense of innovation. He led the whole Party to make the first leap in the sinicization of Marxism in the struggle against dogmatizing Marxism and sanctifying the Soviet Union's experience. After the establishment of the People's Republic of China, he maintained this creative spirit and called on the whole Party to develop Marxism on the basis of serious study of Marxism. "Marxism must move forward and develop with the development of practice, it cannot stagnate. If it stops or remains the same, it will no longer be vital." He also said, "The Communist Party and the intellectual circles of any country should create new theories, write new works, produce their own theorists, and serve current politics. Relying solely on ancestors won't work." However, due to the lack of mature conditions of the times, overreliance on the experience of the wartime era, and the influence of Chinese cultural traditions, Mao often limited this development to within the framework of the classic writers' basic assumptions about socialism during the process of achieving the "second combination". That is to say, he was still bound by some doctrinairism and empiricism at a deeper level. This was a quite common phenomenon in the international communist movement of the time, just in different forms. Under these circumstances, the second leap in the sinicization of Marxism was impossible. As long as the traditional viewpoints were still held on major issues such as the essential characteristics of socialism, public ownership, planned economy, commodity economy, and the times, it was hard to talk about any correct reform of the Soviet model. Therefore, the task of the second leap in the sinicization of Marxism could hardly be completed. 
After 1976, on the basis of summarizing experiences and lessons, Deng Xiaoping led the entire Party to uphold the banner of emancipating the mind and seeking truth from facts, put the task of modernizing Marxism under new historical conditions sharply before the entire Party. "More than a hundred years after the death of Marx, what changes have taken place, and how to understand and develop Marxism under changing conditions is not clear." "We can never ask Marx to provide ready answers to problems that have arisen hundreds of years after his death." "True Marxists and Leninists must understand, inherit and develop Marxism-Leninism in light of the current situation." "The world situation is changing rapidly, especially with the rapid development of modern science and technology. Now one year is equivalent to dozens or even hundreds of years of ancient societies. Those who do not inherit and develop Marxism with new thoughts and viewpoints are not true Marxists." On July 1, 2001, Jiang Zemin further pointed out in his speech at the celebration of the 80th anniversary of the founding of the Communist Party of China: "We must insist on practice as the only criterion for testing truth, and under the guidance of the Party's basic theory, start from reality, consciously liberate ideological understanding from outdated ideas, practices and systems, and liberate from the wrong and dogmatic understanding of Marxism." It is under this ideological guidance that the Communist Party of China has achieved the transition of Marxism from classical to contemporary, the reform of socialist model from traditional to modern, and thus the second leap of the sinicization of Marxism. 
IV. Extension and Preparation: The Characteristics of Marxism Sinicization in 29 Years 
From 1949 to 1978, the sinicization of Marxism underwent a tortuous journey, situated between the two leaps, with "extension" and "preparation" as its distinct characteristics.
The so-called extension mainly refers to the extension and development of the theoretical achievements of the first leap—Mao Zedong Thought. After the founding of New China, the first generation of party central leadership represented by Mao Zedong, in the process of exploring China's own socialist construction path, timely proposed the task of the second combination of Marxism with Chinese reality, conducted explorations in multiple aspects, and achieved significant achievements and progress. Although various mistakes occurred and the second leap was not achieved, the theoretical achievements of the first leap, Mao Zedong Thought, are still continuing and developing. This is reflected in some correct or relatively correct theoretical views and policies formed by the Party in exploring China's own socialist construction path, and some correct or relatively correct practical experiences accumulated.
The so-called "preparation" includes not only the mental and theoretical preparation mentioned above, but also the content in terms of material basis. In the 29 years after the founding of New China, under the leadership of the Party, the country achieved unprecedented political unity, established a strong central government that implemented effective control over all levels of organizations and even the grassroots, built an independent and relatively complete industrial system and national economic system, and realized and consolidated the great unity of all ethnic groups in the country, built a party armed with Mao Zedong Thought that has high prestige and strong mobilization capacity, all these laid a solid material foundation for the reform and opening up. In the exploration over the past three decades, whether it is the achieved achievements or the detours taken, whether it is positive experience or negative lessons, all have prepared the necessary conditions for the second leap.
As previously mentioned, in the 1950s and 60s, the modernization of the socialist model and the contemporization of Marxism were still in a tortuous exploration process worldwide. The task of socialist reform has been put forward, but the goal of the reform is not clear, the theory and methods of the reform lack the test of practice from both positive and negative sides, and the conditions for substantial progress are not yet mature. This can be slightly seen from China's "Cultural Revolution" in the 60s and 70s and the criticism of the socialist market economy in the Soviet Union and Eastern European countries and the stagnation of their reform. Under the conditions of rapid development in science, economy, and politics after the war, the task of contemporizing Marxism has become increasingly prominent, but dogmatism appearing in an orthodox form severely hinders this development. The influence of this dogmatism is so deep and extensive that after the intense movement of the "Cultural Revolution," which is said to "develop Marxism comprehensively", the new era in China started with a politically colored grand discussion on the philosophical common sense issue of the “standard of truth.” At the beginning of China's reform and opening up, Deng Xiaoping proposed the "no argument" strategy, considering that in the context where the influence of dogmatism is still widespread, endless arguments would only delay the opportunity for reform.
At such a specific historical stage, many explorations of socialist countries have an obvious "trial and error" nature, or they are preparing for reform in a special form of "trial and error." Regardless of the result, each attempt and practice accumulates experience and lessons, narrows the scope of exploration for the successors, makes the understanding closer to the truth, and the exploration closer to success. At the beginning of the reform, it is not so much that people knew what to do, it is more that they felt more painfully what not to do. It is with such a rich accumulation of positive and negative practice and preparation that the conditions for China's reform become mature, and the conditions for the second leap of the Sinicization of Marxism become mature. The emergence of the large-scale push for reform and its subsequent relatively smooth development, as well as the proposal of a series of important reform thoughts by Deng Xiaoping, obviously benefited from the maturity of conditions and sufficient preparation.
In 1962, Mao Zedong mentioned in his summary of our country's socialist construction experience that important documents of Marxism in China, such as "On New Democracy" during the Democratic Revolution, could only be produced at that time. Previously, it was impossible because there had not been a whirlwind, neither two victories nor two failures to compare, nor enough experience to fully understand the laws of the Chinese revolution. The method proposed by Mao Zedong here also applies to the analysis and summary of the Sinicization of Marxism 29 years after the founding of New China.

Chapter Two The "Two Theories" of New Democracy
I. From the Theory of New Democratic Revolution to the Theory of New Democratic Society
1. Starting from The Common Program
On September 29th, 1949, the first plenary session of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference unanimously passed The Common Program, which served as the fundamental charter for the revolutionary foundation of the People's Republic of China. The Common Program reflected the basic ideas of the Chinese Communist Party regarding the structure and political system of the new China, as well as its plans for the future development of the nation. It is a product that combines the universal truths of Marxism with the actual circumstances of China, creatively applying Marxist principles in Chinese context and representing the first major leap in the Sinicization of Marxism.
The Common Program stipulates:
"The People's Republic of China is a state of New Democracy, also known as the People's Democracy, where leadership is held by the working class, based on a worker-peasant alliance, uniting all democratic classes and nationalities. It opposes imperialism, feudalism, and bureaucrat-capitalism and strives for China's independence, democracy, peace, unity, and prosperity. The state power of the People's Republic of China belongs to the people. The organs by which the people exercise state power are the people's congresses and people's governments at all levels. The highest organ of state power is the National People's Congress. All levels of organs of state power practice the democratic centralism."
"The People's Republic of China must abolish all privileges of imperialist countries in China, confiscate bureaucratic capital for the state owned by the people, progressively change the feudal and semi-feudal land ownership system into a farmer's land ownership system, protect the public property of the state and cooperative societies, protect the economic interests and private property of workers, farmers, petty bourgeoisie and national bourgeoisie, develop a new democratic people's economy, and gradually transform an agricultural country into an industrialized one."
"The fundamental guideline for the economic construction of the People's Republic of China is to achieve the purpose of developing production and flourishing the economy through the policy of balancing public and private interests, benefiting both labor and capital, assisting each other between urban and rural areas, and exchanging internally and externally," and "to promote the development of the entire social economy by enabling various socioeconomic elements to cooperate and find their own places under the leadership of the state economy.”
The Common Program stipulates: the state-owned economy is of socialist nature and is the leading force of the entire social economy; the cooperative economy is of semi-socialist nature, and the people's government should assist its development, and give privileges; all private economic enterprises that are beneficial to the country and the people should be encouraged by the people's government, which should foster their initiatives, and assist their development; the economy of cooperation between state capital and private capital is of national capitalist nature which should encourage private capital to develop towards national capitalism under necessary and possible conditions.
Guided by the theory of New Democracy, the Common Program is a nation-building program for New Democracy. Its basic provisions on China's politics and economy are one of the most important theoretical achievements of the Chinese Communist Party in combining the universal truth of Marxism with China's reality during the long-term democratic revolution, successfully realizing the first major leap of "Sinicizing Marxism". It illuminates a series of issues, including the revolutionary path and social orientation of New Democracy, the state and political system of a New Democratic nation, the implementation of ethnic regional autonomy within a unitary state, individual economy and capitalist economy, petty bourgeoisie and national bourgeoisie. It has developed the basic principles of Marxism, surpassed the Soviet model, and splendidly presented the sinicization of Marxism. The formation and development of this theory is the process of the sinicization of Marxism.
2. The Propounding of the New Democracy Society
Understanding the bourgeois democratic revolution, the Chinese bourgeois, and the nature of the state to establish after the victory of the Chinese revolution; comprehending the socialist future of the Chinese revolution is one of the fundamental questions of the Chinese revolution. It is also a crucial issue for socialism revolution and construction and a key to realizing the Sinicization of Marxism. The party has gone through a tortuous exploration process on this issue. A systematic and accurate response to this question started with a series of important works by Mao Zedong.
In "The Chinese Revolution and the Communist Party of China" and "On New Democracy," Mao Zedong repeatedly discussed that the Chinese bourgeois democratic revolution that took place in the first half of the 20th century was not an old-style general bourgeois democratic revolution, but a new type of bourgeois democratic revolution, i.e., the New Democracy revolution. This sort of democratic revolution differs from the old-style bourgeois democratic revolution; it is led by the proletariat party and creates a premise for socialism; the Chinese revolution is divided into two stages, Chinese society must go through this revolution to further develop into a socialist society. Mao Zedong's thoughts directly inherit the Marxist-Leninist theses concerning the bourgeois democratic revolution in colonial and semi-colonial societies. In his own words, "it is based on Stalin's theory." For instance: on the nature of the bourgeois democratic revolution; on the proletariat in countries where the tasks of the democratic revolution are not yet completed, must take the democratic revolution as the first step in promoting the socialist revolution; on "the Chinese revolution is part of the global revolution," it is already "part of the new socialist revolution"; on the revolution should not pause, after the success of the democratic revolution, must continue to strive for the victory of the socialist revolution; on the proletariat's insistence on the leadership of the democratic revolution; and so on.
Mao Zedong and the Chinese Communists, proceeding with Chinese realities, have successfully applied the general principles of the Marxist-Leninist bourgeois democratic revolution in the 20th century to the unique historical conditions of the Chinese revolution. They have formed a theory and practice of the New Democracy revolution unique to China, achieving the first historical leap in the Sinicization of Marxism. This is one of the theoretical essences of the Chinese Communist Party in promoting Marxism's Sinicization in the New Democracy revolution.
It's noteworthy that in these two works, especially in "On New Democracy", aside from the discussions and analysis of the new democratic revolution, Mao Zedong also provided a more theoretical and comprehensive description of the character and form of the new society established after the victory of revolution, clearly advocating for the establishment of the "New Democratic Republic". He pointed out that the targets and outcomes of the new democratic revolution are the establishment of a new democratic society. The economic characteristics of this society are: "Big banks, big industries, big commerce, belong to the republic's state ownership", "the state-run economy of the New Democratic Republic under the leadership of the proletariat is of a socialist nature, and it is the leading force of the national economy, yet this republic does not confiscate private property of other capitalists, nor does it prohibit the development of capitalist production that does not control nationals' livelihood".
The basic political characteristic of this new society, "is not and cannot establish capitalism under the dictatorship of Chinese bourgeoisie, but aims to establish a new democratic society under the united dictatorship of all revolutionary classes led by Chinese proletariat". The form of the New Democratic Republic, namely the status of various classes in the nation and its political features, "can only be a Democratic Republic under the united dictatorship of the proletariat-led individuals against imperialism and feudalism, this is the New Democratic Republic, also a genuine revolution's three major policies of New Three People's Principles Republic". This new democratic republic, while different from the old democratic republic, is also distinct from the Soviet-style socialist republic, it is a "New Democratic Republic", "is a united dictatorship of various revolutionary classes", a kind of "transitional form", a kind of "indispensable and necessary form".
The future of this new society is: "After the victory of the revolution, because of the removal of obstacles on the path of capitalist development, capitalism in Chinese society will develop to a considerable extent", "this is the inevitable result of economically backward China after the victory of the democratic revolution". "But this is only one aspect of the result of the Chinese revolution, not all of it. The total result of the Chinese revolution is: development of capitalist elements on one hand, and socialist elements on the other.   "The development of socialist elements combined with favorable international conditions makes the final outcome of the Chinese bourgeois democratic revolution avoiding capitalism and realizing socialism a great possibility".
If it can be said that Mao Zedong's theory on the new democratic revolution focuses more on the specific application of Marxist's theory on democratic revolution, then Mao Zedong's discussion on the politics, economics and culture of the new democratic society in the future and his envisioning of the new social form to be achieved by the revolution are more based on the realities of China, advancing Marxist’s theory of the transition from a backward country to a socialist society. Furthermore, from the mid-1940s, the contents of the new democratic society in the writings of Mao Zedong and the other party leaderships continue to increase.
In April 1945, at the Seventh National Congress of the Party, Mao Zedong made a political report on behalf of the Central Committee entitled "On the Coalition Government." As the Anti-Japanese War was about to be triumphantly concluded, the establishment of a coalition government was already before the Party. With over a decade of successful experience in revolutionary base areas, "On the Coalition Government" not only elucidated more clearly and fully basic views such as the relationship between New Democracy and Socialism, and how to treat capitalism in a New Democratic state, among others, but also further concretized them. Although some contents emphasizing the significance of a certain level of capitalist development for the New Democratic state, as well as the attitude of the new state towards capitalism, were deleted from the 1952 edition of "Selected Works of Mao Zedong", this did not affect the basic ideas of the paper.
On the new state system, Mao Zedong pointed out that "we advocate establishing a state system of democratic alliance of the united front under the leadership of the working class based on the majority of people in the country, after thoroughly defeating the Japanese invaders", that is, "the state system of New Democracy". On the relationship between New Democracy and Socialism, Mao Zedong expressed a very classic phrase: "Only through democracy can we reach socialism, this is an unalterable principle of Marxism."
Compared with other works such as "On New Democracy", during this period Mao Zedong and other Party leaders emphasized the connection between the features of a New Democratic society and a certain level of productivity development, i.e., its material base. On May 22, 1944, Mao Zedong, attending a reception for representatives of the Shaanxi, Gansu, and Ningxia border region factory directors and worker representatives meeting held by the Central Office at the Central Party School Auditorium, said, "We still don't know much about economic work, especially industry, but it is decisive to everything. It determines military, political, cultural, ideological, ethical, religious all these things, it determines social change." Three months later, Mao Zedong pointed out in a letter: "The basis of the New Democratic society is factories (social production, both public and private) and cooperatives (including labor teams), not dispersed individual economy. Dispersed individual economy — family agriculture and handicrafts are the basis of feudal society, not the basis of democratic society (old democracy, new democracy, socialism, all included). This is how Marxism differs from populism. Simply put, the basis of the New Democratic society is machines, not manual. We have not yet obtained machinery, so we have not yet won. If we can never obtain machinery, we will never win and we will perish. The current rural areas are only temporary bases, they cannot and will not be the main basis of China's democratic society. Moving from an agricultural society to an industrial society is our revolutionary task." In his explanation of "On the Coalition Government" at the Seventh National Congress of the Party in 1945, Mao Zedong pointed out that after the development of New Democracy, the transition to socialism would take place. This is our difference from populism. Populism has had a significant influence within our party in China. This report also developed "On New Democracy", confirming the need for a large-scale development of capitalism. Large-scale capitalist development is harmless and beneficial under New Democratic power. Mao Zedong's emphasis on the material basis of New Democratic society is an emphasis on the Marxist theory of productive forces.
At that time, Mao Zedong believed that economically and culturally backward China must carry out New Democratic construction over a relatively long period of time, vigorously develop the economy and culture, and enhance social productivity. In this development process, the socialist nature of the economic components continues to increase, and although private capitalist economy also has a certain level of development, its proportion continues to shrink and is gradually included in the state's planning range. Individual agricultural economies and other individual economies are gradually taking the path of mutual aid production cooperation. After the goals of industrialization and agricultural collectivization are achieved, major socialist steps can be taken to realize the transition to socialist society.
It is precisely based on a scientific understanding of the material foundation of New Democracy society that Mao Zedong was able to have a scientific understanding of capitalism and the bourgeoisie in a New Democracy state. He pointed out: "To replace the oppression of foreign imperialism and domestic feudalism with some kind of development of capitalism is not only a progress but also an inevitable process. It is beneficial not only to the bourgeoisie but also to the proletariat, or even more to the proletariat." "The current China is one more foreign imperialism and one more domestic feudalism, rather than one more domestic capitalism, on the contrary, our capitalism is too little." "Under the state system of New Democracy, besides the state's own economy, the individual economy of the working people, and the cooperative economy, we must allow private capitalist economy to obtain the convenience of development within the scope of not being able to manipulate the nation's livelihood, in order to benefit the development of society.” "Under the state system of New Democracy, a policy of adjusting the interests between labor and capital will be adopted." "On the one hand, protect the interests of workers," "on the other hand, ensure the legitimate profits of state enterprises, private enterprises, and cooperative enterprises under reasonable operation; so that the public and private, labor and capital work together for the development of industrial production."
II. The Initial Exploration of New Democratic Society
1. The planning for the new China at the September 1948 meeting
Under the situation of continuous victories in the Liberation War, the comparison of domestic political, military, and class forces was undergoing rapid and fundamental changes. The Chinese Communist Party has become the decisive force determining the future development of China, and the task of building a new country is more urgently put in front of the Chinese Communist Party. With the push of practice, the theory of new democratic revolution of the Chinese Communist Party continues to develop and mature, and the party Central Committee can no longer be satisfied with a general description of the future new society. As Mao Zedong said, the development of the Chinese Revolution twenty years after the death of Mr. Sun Yat-sen has greatly developed the theory, program, and practice of the new democracy of our party, and will have greater development in the future. According to the fundamental changes in the comparison of forces, the Party has made new thinking about national politics, economy, and other issues, and developed some previous thoughts and strategies. This was particularly evident after the second half of 1948.
In September 1948, the central committee of the party convened a politburo meeting in Xibaipo. In addition to reviewing and summarizing the progress and experience of the war of liberation, the meeting also "systematically and specifically" discussed the construction of New China, proposing "to gradually shift the focus of the Party's work from the countryside to the city", and put the mission of building New China on the agenda. It was in this meeting that the central committee of the party more clearly and accurately planned the blueprint for the new democratic society.
In his report, Mao Zedong elaborated on the class nature of the upcoming government, that is, a people's democratic dictatorship led by the proletariat, based on the worker-peasant alliance, with the participation of bourgeois democrats. Regarding the nature of the new democratic society, Mao Zedong revised the previous saying of "new democracy" or "new capitalism" based on the practice of the anti-Japanese base areas. According to the comparison of class forces and political forces in the late stage of the liberation war, the rapid expansion of the liberated areas and the accumulation of practical experience, Mao Zedong pointed out that the term "new capitalism" is inappropriate because it does not indicate that state-owned economy and public-owned economy, which play a decisive role in our social economy, are under the leadership of the proletariat, so these economies are of socialist nature. In this regard, he pointed out: "The name of our social economy is still called 'new democracy'." In the conclusion of the meeting, he summarized the main contradictions of the new democratic society as: "Now make it clear, after the completion of the bourgeois democratic revolution, the main contradiction inside China is between the proletariat and the bourgeoisie, and externally, it's the contradiction with imperialism."
In his speech at the meeting, Liu Shaoqi, on behalf of the central committee, discussed in detail the upcoming issue of "how to build a new democratic economy". In accordance with the spirit of "On the Coalition Government", Liu Shaoqi pointed out that it was precisely because China's modern machine industry was "very small in number" that it could not immediately carry out socialist revolution after the victory of the revolution. "The overall national economy is called new democratic economy," which "includes natural economy, small production economy, capitalist economy, semi-socialist economy, state capitalist economy, and state-owned socialist economy," with the "state-owned socialist economy as the leading component."
Liu Shaoqi's speech is noteworthy because he not only pointed out the basic contradiction of the new democratic economy but also brilliantly discussed the specific ways to resolve the contradiction. "In the new democratic economy, the basic contradiction is the contradiction between capitalism and socialism". The form of this struggle is economic competition, which is long-term and spread across various aspects. It is a peaceful competition, in which the question of 'who will defeat whom' arises. "If we win the competition, the revolution can be peacefully transformed." Therefore, although "we can't adopt socialist policies too early, we should not underestimate the contradiction between the proletariat laborers and the bourgeoisie, but clearly see this contradiction." In this economy, on the one hand, private capitalism beneficial to the national economy should be developed. On the other hand, attention should be paid to the struggle between private capitalist economy and socialist economy. He required the entire party to have a clear mind, to be good at managing the economy, to be good at peacefully competing with the capitalist economy, otherwise "we will fail, and the proletariat's leadership over the country will be overthrown."
Mao Zedong expressed a similar view to Liu Shaoqi at the meeting. He pointed out in his interjection during Liu Shaoqi's speech that the state power established after the revolution, "In terms of the nature of power and the policy nature of power, it is not the power of the proletariat dictatorship, but the democratic dictatorship of the workers and peasants. It is determined to be the democratic dictatorship of the workers and peasants in cooperation with the broad small producers." It is a new bourgeois democracy, a new democracy." "The politics, economy, and culture of the new democracy all contain socialist elements and components." When Liu Shaoqi spoke of the undesirable "premature adoption of socialist policies", Mao Zedong interjected: When should we start a full-scale attack? Perhaps it will take another fifteen years after nationwide victory. Speaking of the relationship between the proletariat and the bourgeoisie in the new democratic economy, Mao Zedong said: "There are two forms of struggle: competition and confiscation. We need competition now, but not confiscation." He also said: "Simply talking about competition with capitalism cannot solve the problem. There is also the issue of using it to develop production." It can be said that Liu Shaoqi and Mao Zedong's judgments on the basic contradictions of the new democratic economy are correct, especially the prediction and discussion of its "mode of struggle" have distinctive originality.
2. The development of new democratic society thought
Due to the development of practice and deep exploration, during this period, the party's social theory of new democracy rapidly matured. Also in September 1948, Liu Shaoqi discussed the social composition of the new democratic economy in a fairly detailed manner in his article "On the Economy and Cooperatives of New Democracy". That is, the state economy, the cooperative economy, and the private capitalist economy. He emphasized that since China is still a country where small production has a distinct advantage and is still an agricultural country, it is necessary to link up the millions of scattered, independent small producers through commercial relations, and connect them with large industry. In the whole economic system of the new democracy, the cooperative economy should occupy an important position. He also mentioned that, "under the social system of new democracy, there still exists a private capitalist economy that occupies a significant proportion in the national economy. This economy will still develop in the future, and its development to a certain extent is necessary, beneficial, and not frightening." Liu Shaoqi's thoughts, "obviously influenced by Lenin's idea of implementing the New Economic Policy, but added his understanding of Chinese society and the Chinese revolution".
It was at this point, on September 15, 1948, that Zhang Wentian expressed a similar opinion on the policy of new democratic economics in his report to the central government on behalf of the Northeast Bureau, "Outline on the Economic Composition and Basic Principles of Economic Construction in the Northeast" (hereinafter referred to as "the Outline"). At that time, the Northeast had become the largest liberated area in the country, with the most cities, the strongest industrial power, and a large scale experience in economic construction. Therefore, "the Outline" was able to discuss the five economic components of the new democratic economy in more detail than Liu Shaoqi's conception, namely, state-run economy, cooperative economy, state capitalism, private capitalism, and petty commodity economy. "The Outline" pointed out that the state-run economy already occupied a large proportion of the total output in the Northeast and had grasped the lifeblood of the social economy, taking a leading position in the national economy; "This kind of economy operated by the new democratic state under the leadership of the proletariat is already a socialist economy"; "This is the most precious property of the state", "Its development prospect is limitless". As for the cooperative economy, it is "under the new democratic state system led by the proletariat, the cooperative economy, which is bureaucrat-capitalist to various degrees, is the most reliable and powerful assistant to the state-run economy". Regarding the state capitalist economy, "it is the form of capitalist economy that is most conducive to the development of the new democratic economy", we should "promote and organize it consciously", so that it "becomes a beneficial direction in the development of private capitalism". As for private capitalism, due to the limited power of the state-run economy at that time, the undeveloped cooperative economy, war and the needs of the people in all aspects, and the development of free trade, "the existence of private capitalism is inevitable, and to some extent it is still necessary"; "it can’t be underestimated, and we must not restrict the private capitalism that is still benefiting the country and the people prematurely". Regarding the petty commodity economy, "this kind of economy is mainly the petty commodity economy of the peasants", it "under the new democratic state system led by the proletariat, will also develop towards socialism." After analyzing the various economic components in detail, Zhang Wentian concluded: “In general, all the above five kinds of economic components should now be developed, but in the course of development, we must implement a clear leadership line in economic policy.” That is: "Focus on the development of the state-run economy, generally develop and closely rely on the mass cooperative economy, assist and reform the petty commodity economy, tolerate and encourage the beneficial private capitalist economy, especially the state capitalist economy, prevent and oppose the speculative and destructive nature of commodity capitalism, prohibit and crack down on all speculative operations detrimental to the national economy and the people's livelihood." "Only by implementing this line can we smoothly develop the economy of the new democratic society and strengthen the socialist components in the new democratic economy."
The report by the Northeast Bureau, drafted by Zhang Wentian, received attention and affirmation from the Party Central Committee. Between October and December 1948, Liu Shaoqi made several alterations to the document. In these revisions, he wrote: "The conflict between the proletariat and the bourgeoisie is the fundamental contradiction in New Democratic society. The struggle over this contradiction, and particularly the long-term economic competition, will determine the future development direction of the New Democratic society." He pointed out that the distinguishing features of New Democratic economy, as opposed to ordinary capitalist economy, lie in its organization and planned nature. "However, the implementation of such economic organization and planning must be strictly limited within necessary bounds and must be pursued gradually. The full or excessive application of planned economics cannot be implemented." Therefore, "while we criticize and oppose the petty bourgeois or capitalist line, we must also firmly, tightly prevent any acute 'left' adventurous tendencies—that is, taking too early and too many socialist measures in the national economy, exceeding actual feasibility and necessity, thus losing the support of small farmers. This is a highly dangerous 'left' bias that we must strictly guard against."
Notably, Liu further proposed using “economic measures” for construction. He pointed out that revolutionary methods, or administrative means, can be used to eliminate feudalism, but to economically lead peasants and small producers, "using these administrative means is completely ineffective, and indeed dangerous. The proletariat must use economic means that farmers and small producers can accept in order to organize and lead them economically."
After the September Conference, the Party's New Democratic thinking rapidly developed in a comprehensive and deep direction. On December 25th, 1948, Liu Shaoqi delivered a more systematic discourse on the nature of China's new economy at the North China Finance and Economics Committee. He said: "The current direction of revolutionary attacks are still imperialism, feudalism, and bureaucratic capitalism. Private capitalism is not our main target yet." "In politics, we establish a coalition government and are still absorbing the participation of the bourgeoisie." "After the revolution is victorious, capitalism is bound to develop. We don't have to fear this limited development, but we cannot avoid restricting it. Without restriction, it is frightening." "Allowing the development of capitalism that benefits the country and the people is a battle slogan," "Our approach is not to develop capitalism, but to limit it and transition to socialism."
"Our power is of a new democratic nature. The economy is also new democratic. Is the New Democratic economy capitalistic? Or is it socialistic? It is neither. It has elements of socialism and of capitalism. This is a particular historical form whose characteristic is a transitional economy. This economy can transition to capitalism or to socialism. This is an unresolved matter. The transitional nature cannot last long, but there is a relatively long period. After we overthrow the National Party and reserve the bourgeoisie for a period, sincerely developing it for fifteen years is beneficial to the proletariat."
During this period, Mao Zedong, Liu Shaoqi, and others developed discussions on "New Democracy" and "On the Coalition Government," creating visions of society after the revolutionary victory, providing full preparation for the forthcoming second plenary session of the Party's seventh committee.
III. The Establishment of the Theory of New Democratic Nation Building. 
1. The Second Plenary Session of the Seventh Central Committee of the Party.
In March 1949, the second plenary session of the Seventh Central Committee of the Party was held. This meeting convened on the eve of the victory of the New Democratic Revolution. It was an extremely important meeting to determine the basic guidelines and policies after the victory of the revolution. Mao Zedong's report at the meeting stated, "From now on, it is a period that begins from the city to the countryside and led by the city. The party's work focus has shifted from the countryside to the city," and the whole party "must make every effort to learn how to manage the city and to build the city."
Mao Zedong pointed out, "We have already carried out extensive economic construction work, and the party's economic policy has already been implemented in actual work. However, there is much confusion within the party about why we should adopt this type of economic policy instead of another, and about theoretical and principled issues. How should we answer this question? We believe it should be answered like this."
He went on to say, "The proportion of China's industry and agriculture in the national economy, on a national scale, was about 10% modern industry and approximately 90% agriculture and handicraft industry before the Anti-Japanese War. This is the economic manifestation of the semi-colonial and semi-feudal nature of the old China, and it is the fundamental starting point for all issues during the Chinese revolution period and for a considerable length of time after victory." Also, approximately 90% of China lingered in a backward, decentralized, individual agricultural and handicraft economy that is hardly any different from ancient times. He stated, "Whoever overlooks or underestimates this will commit the error of 'left'-leaning opportunism." This is "the fundamental starting point for all questions during the period of the Chinese revolution and for a considerable length of time after the victory of the revolution." 
Starting from this basic point, he pointed out, "Due to the backward state of China's economy at present, we need to utilize the enthusiasm for urban and rural capitalism as long as possible to facilitate the development of the national economy during the length of time after the victory of the revolution." He argued that, "During this period, all elements of urban and rural capitalism that are not detrimental but beneficial to the national economy should be allowed to exist and develop. The idea of restricting private capital too much, or of simply eliminating private capital quickly, is entirely erroneous. This is the viewpoint of 'left'-leaning opportunism or adventurism." He concludes that "Regarding the question of restoring and developing production, it must be established: first is the production of state-owned industries, second is the production of private industries, and third is handicraft industry production." Mao Zedong's classic statements, adhere to the most basic production standard of Marxism, critiqued the ideas that do not stem from China's national conditions and hope to directly enter socialism, and delineated boundaries with thoughts that seem like "revolution" but are very close to populism.
Another critical content of the Second Plenary Session of the Seventh Congress is the judgment on the fundamental contradiction of New China. Mao Zedong declared on his report, "After the victory of the Chinese revolution nationwide, and after solving the land problem, there still exist two fundamental contradictions in China. The first is domestic, that is, the contradiction between the working class and the bourgeoisie. The second is foreign, that is, the contradiction between China and imperialist countries." This judgment indicates the two essential points that the party must be aware of in its work. But such an assessment also brings several questions.
For instance, when the People's Republic of China was founded, feudal land systems still existed in two-thirds of the country. This indicates that although the New Democratic Revolution had won, its economic agenda had not been fully realized. So, what was the primary conflict in China in the period from the founding of the new country to the completion of land reform in the new regions?
Furthermore, how should one handle the need to "make as much use as possible of the vitality of urban and rural capitalism", allow "all aspects of urban and rural capitalism that are not harmful but beneficial to the national economy to exist and develop", while also stating that the contradiction between the working class and the bourgeoisie is the "basic contradiction"?
Again, for example, Mao Zedong repeatedly emphasized in his reports that all work in urban areas "revolves around and serves the central task of production." How should this "central work" be reconciled with the "basic contradiction"?
The occurrence of such situations may be as Hu Sheng suggested: "At that time, there was some wavering, and there was indeed a bit of contradiction in thought." On one hand, there was a deep understanding of China's national conditions and the application of Marxist theories of productive forces. On the other hand, there was understanding of Marxist socialist theories and the borrowing of pragmatic experiences from the Soviet Union and Eastern European countries. Both aspects had a significant impact on the Chinese Communists at the time. The emergence of these issues reflects the development of practice and deepening of understanding, as well as the difficulty of exploration.
After the Second Plenary Session of the Seventh Central Committee, the Party's exploration of a series of basic issues related to the theory and policy of the establishment of the New Democracy has further deepened.
In April 1949, Ren Bishi stated in his report at the First National Congress of the Chinese New Democratic Youth League that in order for China to be economically completely independent, not only must it strive to restore the destroyed industry within three to five years but also, it has to plan to increase the proportion of industry in the national economy from about 10% to 30%-40% within ten to fifteen years. "Only then will a solid economic foundation be laid for the future transition to socialism." In May of the same year, Li Lisan, who was the Chairman of the All-China Federation of Trade Unions, pointed out in a speech that "China's characteristic is that its economic development is too backward," "So China not only can't directly carry out socialist revolution like Russia at that time, but it also can't transition to socialism a few years after the revolutionary victory like new democratic countries in Eastern Europe." After the victory of the Chinese revolution "an extended period of New Democratic construction is necessary to develop China's industry." "Without the vast development of industries, not only socialism cannot be implemented, but there is also no talk of true and thorough economic independence from imperialism for the Chinese nation."
Over three months later, on June 30, 1949, Mao Zedong, in his piece "On the People’s Democratic Dictatorship” commemorating the 28th anniversary of the founding of the Chinese Communist Party, discussed the above-thoughts again. "Who are the people? In China, at the current stage, they are the working class, the peasant class, the petty bourgeoisie, and the national bourgeoisie. These classes, under the leadership of the working class and the Communist Party, unite to form their own state." "With this as a condition, it is possible for China to steadily transition from an agricultural country to an industrial country, and from a new democratic society to a socialist and communist society, under the leadership of the working class and the Communist Party." "The basis of the people's democratic dictatorship is the alliance of the working class, the peasant class, and the petty bourgeoisie," "from new democracy to socialism, this alliance of the two classes is mainly relied on." "The national bourgeoisie has great significance at this stage." "To resist the oppression of imperialism and to improve China's backward economic position, China must utilize all urban and rural capitalist factors that are beneficial and not harmful to national economics and people's livelihood, unite with the national bourgeoisie, and strive together. Our current policy is to control capitalism, not to eliminate it. However, the national bourgeoisie cannot act as the leader of the revolution, nor should they hold the main position in state power."
On the eve of the founding of New China, not only the party's theory of the New Democratic Revolution was very mature and complete, but also the party's theory of the establishment of the New Democratic and social theory of the New Democratic was basically mature. The process of development and maturity of the New Democracy "Two Discourses" is the process of development and maturity of the Sinicization of Marxism.
2. A Model of Practicing New Democracy Society - Liu Shaoqi's "Tianjin Talk"
With the successive victories of the Liberation War, many major cities were liberated one after another, and a large number of officials who had long been active in backward rural areas entered the cities, undertaking the task of receiving and managing the cities. Due to the rapid approach of victory, these officials were unprepared mentally and policy-wise, and "leftist" mistakes were commonly made in urban management, which was very unfavorable for implementing party policies, quickly restoring urban production, and stabilizing people's confidence.
After the liberation of Tianjin in early 1949, social order was quickly restored, but production recovery was slow. In addition to the destruction caused by the war, these were important reasons for the inability to handle public-private relations and labor-capital relations properly. Among capitalists, there was a common wait-and-see attitude. Bo Yibo recalled, "Workers and clerks mistakenly believed that we allowed the division of factories and shops to carry out liquidation struggles. Within a month of the liberation of Tianjin, there were fifty-three liquidation struggles." "Capitalists had three fears: fear of liquidation, fear that the Communist Party only cared about the interests of workers, and fear that workers would be unable to manage later, making production impossible." "Therefore, they adopted a passive wait-and-see attitude, and even fled to Hong Kong. According to Tianjin statistics, less than thirty percent of private enterprises were operational at that time." The Party organization in Tianjin was also lacking in ways to implement policies towards private capital. The seriousness of the problem lies in that the problems in Tianjin were quite common in newly liberated urban areas. Whether these issues could be resolved correctly and quickly in line with the spirit of the Second Plenary Session of the Seventh Central Committee mattered for the stability and consolidation of the people's government. According to the decision of the central government, Liu Shaoqi went to Tianjin in April 1949 to address the issue of restoring urban production as soon as possible. Through in-depth, extensive discussions and surveys, Liu Shaoqi gave a series of important speeches in Tianjin. These speeches profoundly and vividly expounded the spirit of the Second Plenary Session of the Seventh Central Committee, propagated the Party's New Democratic founding ideas, declared the Party's policy towards the national bourgeoisie, forcefully rectified the "leftist" errors that appeared in urban work at the time, and played a significant role in stabilizing the situation and restoring and developing production.
Liu Shaoqi said in his speech that capitalists are not only no longer the targets of workers' struggle, but rather, are the targets to unite and win over. The focus today is on uniting the free bourgeoisie, not on focusing on struggle. Regarding the problems in the work in Tianjin, he said: Chairman Mao has said that our approach to issues should be comprehensive, taking into account all sides. The four sides are public-private relations, labor-capital relations, urban-rural relations, and domestic-foreign relations. The "eight directions" refer to the two sides of urban-rural relations, the two sides of domestic-foreign relations, the two sides of public-private relations, and the two sides of labor-capital relations. All must be taken care of. He quoted what Mao Zedong said during a conversation with Shanghai business community representatives in the first half of 1949, "In revolution, the proletariat is first, but in cities, production is first."
"Is the New Democratic economy capitalist? Or socialist? It's neither. It contains elements of socialism as well as capitalism. This is a unique historical phase characterized by a transitional economy, which can proceed towards capitalism, or towards socialism." The transitional nature cannot persist indefinitely, but will last a fairly long period of time. "Why not eliminate the bourgeoisie earlier? Because doing so comes with many difficulties. After its eradication, will it re-emerge? Once eliminated, you might still need to invite it back." Therefore, "After we overthrew the Kuomintang, we chose to retain the bourgeoisie for a while, sincerely developing it within a fifteen year span which is beneficial to the proletariat." 
Liu Shaoqi comprehensively analyzed the state of Chinese capitalism at that time: "The capitalist exploitation system cannot be completely abolished today," "Today the workers suffer, not because of the development of capitalism, but because of the lack of its development. Under the current conditions in China, a certain amount of development of private capitalist economy is progressive, beneficial to the national economy, beneficial to China, and beneficial to the workers." "Exploitation under specific historical conditions is progressive." "Today, in our country, the exploitation by capitalism is not only without sin, but credited. After feudal exploitation was removed, capitalist exploitation was progressive. Today, the problem is not that there are too many factories and too many exploited workers, but too few." "The contradiction between the working class and the bourgeoisie cannot be fundamentally resolved today, but can only be attempted to alleviate." 
Liu Shaoqi's Tianjin speech dispelled many of the worries among the cadres at the time and clarified some muddled understandings. Although some phrases may have been overstated, it generally correctly elucidated the Party's policy towards the national bourgeoisie and detailed the basic economic policies of the New Democratic state. The most impressive aspect was his approach from the standard of productivity, rather than from the threshold of abstract ideological standards or abstract moral judgments. After Liu Shaoqi's "Tianjin speech", from May, Tianjin's industrial and commercial production began to recover. After June and July, the main industrial production industry recovered to the pre-founding level. In September, the number of private commercial and industrial businesses approved for opening rose from 293 in April to 3,800, with the number of employees increasing by nearly 20%. With the rapid recovery of industry and commerce as a symbol, Tianjin's economic construction showed a thriving scene. The "Tianjin Talk" set an example for the entire Party to correctly handle a series of problems after taking over the city.
3. "Guidelines on the Economic Construction of New China"
In June 1949, Liu Shaoqi wrote a report outline titled "On the Economic Construction Guidelines of New China" in order to have discussions with the leaders of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union in Moscow. The outline was based on the spirit of the Seventh Central Committee's Second Plenary Session and an exchange of views with other major leaders of the Central Committee. It provided a more systematic, accurate, and standardized explanation of the economic components and their interrelationships after the establishment of New China, and introduced the forthcoming comprehensive economic construction. The five types of economic components were listed as follows: state-owned economy, cooperative economy, state capitalism, private capitalism, petty commodity economy, and semi-natural economy. The natures of these five types of economic components were: state-owned economy under the leadership of the proletariat in the New Democratic state was a socialist economy, cooperative economy was an economy with different degrees of socialist nature, state capitalism was very close to socialist economy, private capitalism, petty commodity economy and semi-natural economy were the basis for the trend of capitalist development. Based on the above analysis, the outline remarked, "In the current and early post-war period, because of the urgency to heal war wounds and recover the disrupted and isolated economic life, generally speaking, all of the above five kinds of economic components should be encouraged, except for those speculative operations and operations harmful to the national economy and livelihood of the New Democracy. Among them, developing the state-owned economy as the main body is a must." 
Another important content of the outline was the analysis and identification of the "basic contradiction within New China after the elimination of imperialist and feudal forces". The outline reiterated the spirit of the Seventh Central Committee's Second Plenary Session: "This is the struggle between socialist factors and trends and capitalist factors and trends, and the struggle between the proletariat and the bourgeoisie." "Will this contradiction and struggle determine whether China's future path is to transition to a socialist society, or to a capitalist society?" The outline suggests that the New Democratic economy will be a transition. "This transition will be achieved through a long and arduous period of struggle," in other words, the question posed by Lenin during the New Economic Policy of the Soviet Union, “Who will overcome whom?” 
This report outline, written on the eve of the founding of New China, reflects the nation-building concept that has been constantly maturing through 29 years of democratic revolution. Compared with the previous discussions by central leaders, it clarifies the main contradiction after the founding of New China, emphasizing the struggle between socialism and capitalism, the proletariat and the bourgeoisie, and speaks more cautiously about the development and utilization of capitalism. It discusses its importance less than in "On the Coalition Government" and "On New Democracy". It still maintains the New Democracy, but it feels different from when discussing "On the Coalition Government". Furthermore, the outline equates the New Democratic economy with Lenin's New Economic Policy, and the New Democratic period with Lenin's "transition period". This differs from works like "On New Democracy". This can be seen as a step back from the standpoint of works like "On the Coalition Government", or as a development with practical developments.
It is understandable that this situation would occur, to put it simply, neither absolute regression nor absolute development seem desirable. Firstly, on the eve of the founding of the People's Republic of China, the domestic political and military situation had undergone fundamental changes, and the Chinese Communist Party and the revolutionary classes it led had become the overwhelmingly dominant force. In such a scenario, the understanding of the bourgeoisie, New Democratic revolution and New Democracy society would inevitably develop in new ways in practice, and the emergence of some different understandings from the past is understandable. Secondly, during the process of restoring the national economy, the contradictions between the working class and the bourgeoisie, and between the state-run economy and the capitalist economy, will gradually become prominent. Dealing with these contradictions in practice is much more complicated than proving them theoretically. Thirdly, with the advance of large-scale economic work, the construction experiences of the Soviet Union and Eastern European People's Democracies are having an increasingly significant impact, and the influence of the Soviet model is gradually strengthening.
The emergence of these issues is essentially a question of how to handle the relationship between socialism and capitalism, and how to manage the relationship between the proletariat and the national bourgeoisie in a country of New Democracy. On this issue, the Party has accumulated experiences from its struggles of more than twenty years, including experiences from revolutionary base areas during the Second Revolutionary Civil War and the Anti-Japanese Democratic Base Areas during the Anti-Japanese War, as well as from Eastern European People's Democracies following the Second World War. On a theoretical level, it has Lenin's theories on the New Economic Policy, theories on the transitional period, and Stalin's related theories. But when victory came quickly, a comprehensive practice was still lacking. When dealing with a large number of specific policies, many unresolved contradictions were faced. It is in this context that there emerged some theoretical incoherence and lack of thoroughness, as in the article "Nature of New China's Economy and Economic Construction Policy", in which Liu Shaoqi compared China and the Soviet Union during their early stages of construction from economic, political, and international perspectives, emphasizing the combination of China's unique national conditions and the uniformity of the people's democratic country building. He pointed out that the experience of the Soviet Union couldn't be copied wholesale. For example, state capitalism didn't get practiced in the Soviet Union, but we have practiced it. Some would say, "The Soviet Union didn't adopt this policy, so we don’t have to either". But "the circumstances in China are different", our conditions are better than the Soviet Union, and most importantly, "Our revolution has not yet opposed the bourgeoisie, and to some extent, has partnered with them and will continue to pair up in the future".
However, there was also an aspect where the copying was too literal, as when he compared the New Democratic economic policy with Lenin's New Economic Policy and concluded, "Lenin said, what is the New Economic Policy? It's a brutal class struggle between proletariat and bourgeoisie. The economic policy of New Democracy is a policy of sharp class struggle between proletariat and bourgeoisie, and it's the final struggle. The more desperate the bourgeoisie becomes, the more resistant and ruthless they become. We must stay vigilant." Later practice has shown that these two can be compared in some ways, but not in others. Both the New Economic Policy and the New Democratic Economic Policy focus on utilizing capitalism to develop the economy based on their respective backwater national conditions, but it’s not easy to decide how much and how long to exploit them, and how to deal with the relationship between proletariat and bourgeoisie and the relationship between socialism and capitalism while utilizing them. Not only can there be different interpretations theoretically, but it’s also difficult to master in practical work. Furthermore, due to different national conditions, the ways different countries deal with these issues can vary considerably. This issue, for all countries that embraced socialism after the war, was a test of whether they could integrate the basic principles of Marxism with their own specific circumstances.
Despite these situations, the party's basic understanding of the new democratic society and new democratic economy remains consistent. For instance, despite the clarity of the fundamental contradiction, Mao Zedong, Liu Shaoqi, and others still maintained a positive attitude toward a certain degree of development of capitalism, with a particular emphasis on using "competition" as the method to resolve this contradiction. They took a cautious attitude toward the relationship between the New Democracy and socialism, as at that time, the party leaders repeatedly emphasized the long-term transition from the new democratic society to a socialist society.
Ⅳ. The crystallization of the New Democracy's nation-building theory - The Common Program
On October 1, 1949, the long-anticipated independent and unified New China under the New Democracy was finally born. The Common Program passed by the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference, serving as the new China's program and construction blueprint, set down the essence of the new democratic revolution theory and the new democratic society theory in the form of a provisional constitution. Therefore, a prominent feature of The Common Program is to clearly state everything that should and could be done at the current stage — while leaving things that should be done but cannot be done at this stage unstated, and it does not explicitly portray a vision for future society. This is a truly practical action program rooted in China's reality and tailored to the people's needs. Based on this, Liu Shaoqi, on behalf of the Communist Party of China, solemnly declared at a plenary session of the CPPCC: the Communist Party of China fully obeys all the stipulations of The Common Program, and calls upon the entire nation to fight for the complete fulfillment of this program. 
1. Concerning the form of government, political system
Concerning the state system and the political system, the "Common Program" stipulates: "The People's Republic of China is a state of new democracy, namely, the people's democracy, implementing the people's democratic dictatorship led by the working class and based on the alliance of workers and peasants, uniting all democratic classes and all ethnic groups in China." "The state power of the People's Republic of China belongs to the people. The organs through which the people exercise state power are the people's congresses and people's governments at all levels. The highest state power organ is the National People's Congress. All levels of power organs uniformly implement the democratic centralism."
This provision of the "Common Program" has been continually developed and finally formed through long-term practice and exploration. On the eve of the all-out Anti-Japanese War, Mao Zedong pointed out: "There will be several developmental stages in the democratic revolution, all under the democratic republic. From the bourgeoisie being dominant to the proletariat being dominant, this is a long process of struggle." In early 1940, in "On New Democracy", the Party explicitly put forward the slogan of "New Democratic Republic", initially clarifying the state system of the New Democratic Republic as "the joint dictatorship of all revolutionary classes". In 1944, the Chinese Communist Party proposed to abolish the one-party dictatorship of the Kuomintang and establish a democratic coalition government. The 7th National Congress of the Party clearly stated: "After thoroughly defeating the Japanese invaders, a state system of a democratic alliance of a united front under the leadership of the working class, based on the vast majority of the people nationwide, will be established." On April 30, 1948, the "May Day Slogan" issued by the CCP Central Committee excluded the reactionary ruling group of the Kuomintang from the democratic coalition government based on the change in balance of forces. In 1949, "On The People's Democratic Dictatorship" further clarified: "To summarize our experience, concentrate it into one point, that is, the People's Democratic Dictatorship led by the working class (through the Communist Party) based on the alliance of workers and peasants"; "The foundation of the People's Democratic Dictatorship is the alliance of the working class, the peasant class, and the urban petite bourgeoisie, mainly the alliance of workers and peasants." Although the national bourgeoisie is still of great importance, their social and economic status determines that they "should not have a predominant position in state power." The form of the political power organization of the new China, which is the new democratic state, adopts the democratic centralism, with major policies decided by the People's Congresses at all levels and the election of the government, instead of following the parliamentary system and separation of the legislative, executive, and judicial powers of the bourgeois state.
In the later stages of the Liberation War, when the political situation and the balance of class forces underwent massive changes, there was some doubt or concern among some of the party's cadres and some democrats and non-party members, namely, whether or not to continue with New Democracy, whether to return to the proletarian dictatorship of the land revolution war era, or to directly proceed to the proletarian dictatorship of the Soviet Union? The formulation of the Common Program shows that the Party has adhered to the theory of people's democratic dictatorship formed and developed in the democratic revolution, and has put it into practice in founding the country, establishing a new type of state power. The people's democratic dictatorship excluded the Kuomintang reactionaries, thus it differed from the coalition government; however, it absorbed representatives of the national bourgeoisie and their parties to participate in the government, and the scope of the coalition class was broader than that of the proletarian dictatorship, which was its unique characteristic. Nonetheless, it was essentially the same as the proletarian dictatorship with the working class as the leadership, the alliance of workers and peasants as the basis, and socialism as the future. On this point, Liu Shaoqi made a succinct exposition in a written report submitted to the Central Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union during his visit to the Soviet Union in July 1949. He said, "China's people's democratic dictatorship has its common points with the 'proletarian dictatorship' proposed by Lenin in the 1905-1907 revolution, but it also has its differences," because it also includes representatives and factions of the liberal bourgeoisie. "The form of the people's democratic dictatorship is the people's congress system. This is not the parliamentary system of the bourgeoisie, but nearer to the Soviet system, but it also differs from the proletarian dictatorship of the Soviet system because representatives of the democratic bourgeoisie participate in the people's congresses." In August of the same year, he also said at a cadre meeting of the Northeast Bureau, “Because we need to cooperate with the bourgeoisie for a considerable period of time, China cannot establish a proletarian dictatorship but only a people’s democratic dictatorship. Do not think that because Eastern Europe is establishing a proletarian dictatorship, we should also establish a proletarian dictatorship; if we must mention Greece in everything, it will become dogmatism. Our issues should be decided based on China's specific circumstances."
The concept of the state regime and political system proposed by the Communist Party of China for new China was discussed and agreed upon at the plenary session of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference, and written into the Common Program. This new form of dictatorship was suitable for the then economic, political development level and practical needs of China, and was another great achievement of the Sinicization of Marxism.
However, subsequent developments proved that the understanding of the basic concepts such as people's democratic dictatorship, proletarian dictatorship, and proletarian dictatorship was not quite solid within the party at that time. After some changes in the later situation, when the stage of New Democracy's social development was no longer mentioned, the boundaries between these concepts became blurred or directly equated.
2. On the Economic Composition and Economic System of New Democracy
The "Common Program" stipulates: The fundamental guideline of the economic construction of the People's Republic of China is to adhere to public-private integration, mutual benefits of labor and capital, urban-rural mutual aid, and internal and external exchanges, with the goal of developing production and prospering the economy. The state should adopt various policies to make all economic components work in cooperation under the guidance of state-owned economy so as to facilitate the development of the overall social economy. The state-owned economy, as an economy of socialist nature, is the leading force of the overall society's economy. The cooperative economy is a semi-socialist economy and an important part of the entire people's economy. We should encourage and assist the broad masses of working people to develop cooperative ventures based on the principle of voluntariness. As for private economic enterprises that are beneficial to the nation's economy and people's livelihood, we should encourage their active operation and assist their development; under necessary and possible conditions, private capital should be encouraged to develop towards state capitalism.
These economic principles have been discussed many times in the writings of Mao Zedong and other party leaders. For instance, at the Central Political Bureau meeting in September 1948, Mao Zedong, focusing on the socialist elements in the economic structure of the new China, pointed out: "The determining elements in our socialist economy are state-owned and publicly owned economies. The country is led by the proletariat, so these economies are of a socialist nature. The rural individual economy plus the urban private economy are large in number but do not play a decisive role. Our state-owned and publicly owned economies are smaller in number but play a decisive role." "The term 'socialist nature' should be used, but the whole national economy is still a New Democratic economy, i.e., an economic system under the leadership of a socialist economy."
At the Second Plenary Session of the Seventh Central Committee of the Party, Mao Zedong further clarified: "The state-owned economy is socialist in nature, the cooperative economy is semi-socialist in nature, plus private capitalism, plus individual economy, plus national and private cooperative state capitalism, these are the main economic components of the People's Republic. These constitute the economic form of New Democracy." In the whole national economy, the state-owned economy is the leading component and plays a decisive role. Because "China's private capitalist industry ranks second in modern industry, it is a force that cannot be ignored", therefore "for a considerable period after the victory of the revolution, it is still necessary to make the best possible use of the initiative of urban and rural private capitalism to facilitate the development of the national economy." At the same time, it is necessary to "adopt appropriate and flexible restrictive policies towards capitalism." He stressed prominently that China's economy is still in a backward state, and the proportion of modern industry in the whole national economy is still small. This is the most fundamental basis for the Party to formulate economic policies, "this is also the basic starting point for all issues during the period of Chinese revolution and for a considerable period after the victory of the revolution."
The "Common Program" and the basic economic guidelines of the party's New Democracy society on which it is based, are of great significance for continuously developing and strengthening the state-owned economy of a socialist nature after the establishment of New China, fully utilizing the productive forces of the capitalist industry, gradually increasing the proportion of modern industry in the whole national economy, rapidly recovering and developing productive forces, and laying a material and technical foundation for the transition to socialism.
3. The System of Multi-party Cooperation and Political Consultation under the Leadership of the Communist Party of China
The new China practices a system of multi-party cooperation and political consultation under the leadership of the Communist Party of China (CPC), rather than a one-party system. As stipulated in the "Common Program," the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC), composed of representatives from the CPC, various democratic parties, people's organizations, regions, the People's Liberation Army, minority ethnic groups, overseas Chinese, and other patriots, is the organizational form of the people's democratic united front. It also states that prior to the convening of national people's congress by universal election, the plenary session of the CPPCC exercises the powers and functions of the national people's congress and "exercises state power."
During the long-term anti-imperialist and anti-feudal revolution, the CPC formed a close relationship with various democratic parties. Adherence to the People's Democratic United Front was a critical strategy for the CPC's successful leadership of the New Democratic Revolution. After the nationwide victory of the New Democratic Revolution, there were some within the CPC who believed that the revolution had succeeded and that the united front and democratic parties were "optional". Some in the democratic parties believed that their mission had been accomplished and wanted to terminate gracefully. In response to these views, before and after the CPPCC, Mao Zedong directed the party to acknowledge the long-term existence of various democratic parties and to create a "multi-party" political scenario. On September 22, 1949, Zhou Enlai also pointed out at the CPPCC: To build a new China, "we unite all democratic classes, all ethnic groups and overseas Chinese at home and abroad to form such a great united front." "Such a front should continue and be formalized in organization to promote its development." "In the era of New Democracy, since various classes exist, there will be multiple parties."
The system of multi-party cooperation and political consultation directed by the CPC, as established by the "Common Program", is an inheritance and development of Marxist theory of parties and states. Marx and Engels once imagined that in the struggle for the proletariat to seize power, union with other worker parties and parties striving for democracy should be achieved. However, without relevant experience, it is impossible to speculate on the relationship between parties after the realization of proletarian dictatorship. Lenin once considered inviting Mensheviks and other minorities to join the new government in the process of leading the Russian Revolution, so as to establish a coalition government within the Soviet Union. But due to the others’ inconsistency and non-cooperation, the idea of multi-party cooperation could not be realized. Based on China's national conditions, the practice of founding the country under the CPC has evolved from a united front of multi-party cooperation during the democratic revolution to a governing system of multi-party cooperation. This is the result of combining Marxism-Leninism with China's reality, a vivid manifestation of the sinicization of Marxism.
The multi-party cooperation and political consultation system led by the Communist Party of China is different from the western countries' multi-party governing system. It is a one-party-led multi-party cooperation system based on the "Common Program". This political system, which is suitable for China's national conditions, has shown unique political advantages and strong vitality in China's political and social life, and has played an irreplaceable major role.
4. A Unified People's Republic of Multiple Nationalities
Another major contribution of the "Common Program" to the basic state system is to determine that China is a unified People's Republic of multiple nationalities, rather than a federation of multiple national republics.
Due to the influence of the wave of national self-determination after the First World War and the influence of the Soviet Union, the Communist Party of China also advocated national self-determination and the establishment of a "federation" in its previous program documents. The party proposed to establish the "Republic of China Federation" in the declaration of the Second Congress in 1922. In the party constitution of the Seventh Congress in 1945, it proposed to establish a "New Democratic Federation of freely united nations". The "Declaration of the Chinese People's Liberation Army" on October 10, 1947, also proposed that various minority nationalities in China have "equal autonomy and free accession to the Chinese Federation". This understanding continued until the Political Consultative Conference was convened in 1949.
On the eve of the founding of the New China, a major shift in understanding occurred within the party as they drafted the "Common Program". Mao Zedong proposed that we should consider whether to follow a federation system, or a unified republic with autonomous regions for ethnic minorities. On September 7, 1949, Zhou Enlai, while reporting to the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC), raised the question: "In terms of the state system, there is still one problem, that is, whether our country is a multi-ethnic federation...please consider this." He said: "China is a multi-ethnic country, but the characteristic is that the Han nationality accounts for the majority of the population, with all ethnic minorities added up not even accounting for ten percent of the national population. Regardless of the number, all ethnicities are equal." "The main issue here is whether the ethnic policy is aimed at autonomy or beyond the scope of autonomy. We advocate for ethnic autonomy, but we must prevent imperialism from using ethnic issues to undermine China's unity." We should adopt such a policy to unite all ethnic groups into a large family and prevent divisions instigated by imperialism. Today, imperialists still attempt to divide our Tibet, Taiwan and even Xinjiang. Under such circumstances, we hope the ethnic groups will not be incited by imperialists. For this reason, our country is named the People's Republic of China, not a federation. Based on this new understanding, the CPPCC decided, considering the fact that while there are many ethnic minorities in our country but they make up a small population and live scattered across the country, the New China will not adopt the federal system of multi-nationalities, but establish a unified republic and implement regional ethnic autonomy. The new country is named the People's Republic of China, not a federation.
The "Common Program" stipulates the system of regional ethnic autonomy within a unitary state is a new achievement which distinguishes New China from the Soviet model and a great creation of applying Marxist-Leninist national theory to solving China's national and state system problems. The establishment of the system of ethnic regional autonomy plays an important role in maintaining unity among various ethnic groups and nationwide, and in forming equal, united and mutually supportive new ethnic relations. The development of New China over more than half a century has shown that this system design has profound meaning for achieving long-term security of the country in a complex international environment.
When the "Common Program" was drafted, the revolutionary forces represented by the Communist Party held a dominant position in politics and economics, with socialist elements greatly increased, making the future transition to socialism clearer. Therefore, during the discussion of the general outline of the "Common Program", some opinions held that since New Democracy was to transition to socialism and communism, "this prospect should be clearly specified". In response to this understanding, on September 22, 1949, Zhou Enlai, appointed by the Central Committee, explained in a report at the plenary session of the CPPCC that the transition to socialism is certain and undeniable, but should be demonstrated to the people of the whole country through explanation, propaganda, and particularly practice. "Only when the people of the whole country recognize this as the only best prospect in their own practice will they genuinely acknowledge it and be willing to strive for it wholeheartedly. Therefore, it was not written temporarily, which does not deny it, but regards it more seriously. Moreover, the economic part of this program has already stipulated that it should be ensured in practice to move towards this prospect."
The "Common Program" summarizes the basic experiences of the Chinese New Democratic Revolution and plans the strategy and direction of the construction of New China in the form of a fundamental law. It represents the advanced stage of the development of New Democratic Theory and the basic guideline for the transition to a new stage. It contains the entire minimum program of the Chinese Communist Party, the task of realizing the New Democratic Revolution and construction at the current stage; At the same time, it connects with the party's future socialist program in the basic policy, and it is the governance norm of the party over a relatively long period.
The formulation and implementation of the "Common Program" is a model of the Party's adherence to Marxism and grounding in Chinese reality. It is the Party's masterpiece in continuously advancing the sinicization of Marxism in leading the New Democratic Revolution. It reflects the Party's profound understanding of the essence of Marxism on the eve of national governance, laying a fundamental premise and institutional foundation for the development and progress of contemporary China.

Chapter Three Development of the New Democratic Founding Thought in Implementing the "Common Program"
The establishment of the People's Republic of China on October 1, 1949, unveiled a new chapter in the history of both China and the Chinese Communist Party, as well as a new chapter in the sinicization of Marxism.
After the founding of the New China, the Party led the entire nation in the comprehensive implementation of the New Democratic nation-building program. While fully restoring and developing agricultural and industrial production and various economic ventures, on the one hand, it established and developed the state-owned economy and made it occupy a leading position in the national economy, and on the other hand, deeply carried out various reforms centered on land reform, energetically suppressed counter-revolutionaries, cleared up the remaining armed forces of the reactionary Kuomintang, and purged the poison of the old society. An unprecedented stability emerged in China, and profound changes took place in social life.
The New Democratic society is a transitional society, an intermediate stage in the transition from semi-colonial semi-feudal society to socialist society. These basic understandings were established by the Party in its long-term exploration during the democratic revolution. Its classical exposition is what was pointed out at the Second Plenary Session of the Seventh Central Committee: to transform China from an agrarian country into an industrial one, and from a New Democratic society into a socialist society. Under the conditions where the Party was already in power, in the process of fully implementing the building of a New Democratic nation, when the state-owned economy had firmly established its leading position in the entire national economy but was facing many new problems, the New Democratic theory also faced the task of development and enrichment. The only question is how to develop and in which direction.
Ⅰ. Comprehensively implementing the New Democratic nation-building guideline, restoring and developing the national economy.
At the beginning of the founding of New China, the primary task facing the entire Party was to restore the economy and complete the unfinished tasks of the democratic revolution. It should be noted that these fundamental tasks are completed under the economic and political systems of the New Democracy, and in turn promote the consolidation and development of this system. That is to say, the period of economic recovery is also the period of building a New Democratic society.
1. "We Cannot Implement Socialism Immediately"
The construction of a new democratic economy mainly involves the development of five economic components. According to the spirit of the Second Plenary Session of the Seventh Central Committee, the Party insists on wholeheartedly relying on the working class in urban work, prioritizing the recovery and development of state-owned industrial productivity, making it the leading force and the main body in the national economy. At the same time, the development of private capitalism and individual economy is permitted to exploit their positive role in boosting productivity. At that time, although the Party's leaders and the related policies as well as the "Common Program" had already stipulated principles, due to the inherent contradictions in the theory of New Democracy, especially the "fundamental contradiction" and contradictions in the central task, and many new situations and problems appearing in practical work, there was still some confusion and vacillation among some members. 
How to understand and treat the bourgeoisie in urban industry and commerce, whether to simply copy the Soviet experience, hastily attacking capitalism, or whether to stick to the theory of New Democracy based on China's national condition, acknowledging the necessity of capitalism in China where productivity is far behind, and that the transition to socialism is only possible after productivity has developed to a considerable degree? Faced with the bewilderment within and outside the party, the Central Committee attached great importance to guiding the majority of Party members and cadres to correctly understand and treat the status and role of the urban industrial and commercial bourgeoisie in the construction of New Democracy.
At that time, strictly distinguishing the boundary between feudalism exploitation and capitalism exploitation, affirming the significant positions and functions of capitalism and the bourgeoisie in the national life, was the focus to correct the "leftist" mistakes in urban work. Liu Shaoqi's "Tianjin Speech" in April 1949 played an important role in this regard. It's worth noting that at the beginning of the founding of New China, although some cadres had some simplified understandings of the national bourgeoisie, the cognition of the Party Central Committee was sober and firm. At the National United Front Conference held in April 1950, a senior cadre argued in his speech that "Our current principal opponent is the bourgeoisie." Such erroneous saying aroused the concern of Zhou Enlai. On April 12th, Zhou Enlai sent this speech record to Mao Zedong and Liu Shaoqi, attaching a note saying "this is a mistaken and confused opinion" and pointing out that there was more than one person with this confused idea. On April 13th, Zhou Enlai pointed out at the National United Front Conference, "Our central issue today is not to overthrow the bourgeoisie, but how to co-operate with them. our state-owned economy's strength is still small, and the privately-owned economy, which benefits public welfare, has a certain positive role; it should be assisted to develop", to "help the state-owned economy meet the diverse needs of the people." As for resorting to coercion, "it would not bring about socialism." "The issue of encouraging the development of private enterprises is now on our agenda," if public and private can't be taken into account, it will also be difficult to realize the mutual benefit of labor and capital. In response to Zhou Enlai's feedback, Mao Zedong instructed that "Our main opponents today are imperialism and the remnants of the reactionary Kuomintang, not the national bourgeoisie." For the national bourgeoisie, "we need to adopt a policy of both unity and struggle in order to unite with them for the development of the national economy." In response to the draft speech saying "the state-owned economy is to be developed unlimitedly," Mao Zedong further directed that "This is a long-term matter, it is impossible to develop unlimitedly at the current stage, it is necessary to utilize private capital simultaneously."
In March and April 1950, the Central Committee held successive meetings such as the Working Conference with responsible personnel from various major regions and the Politburo meeting, in preparation for the 3rd Plenary Session of the 7th CCP Central Committee. The meetings clearly pointed out that the principle of adjusting industry and commerce is to consider both public and private sectors and to achieve mutual benefit between labor and capital, and to correct some cadres' incorrect ideas and practices that aim to overturn private industry and commerce. Mao Zedong said at the meeting: "Working with the bourgeoisie is affirmed. Otherwise, the Common Program will be a mere scrap of paper, disadvantageous both politically and economically. 'Don't look at the monk but at the Buddha', if we maintain private industry and commerce, we maintain production first, the workers second, and the workers can also get some benefits. Of course, the bourgeoisie are given a certain profit. However, compared to that, it's more beneficial to the workers and the people to develop private industry and commerce at present." He also said, "We are a big Party, we should pay particular attention to our strategies. Especially now that we have won, we need to consolidate our victory and be even more cautious, we should oppose 'leftist' ideas and practices."
On May 25th, Mao Zedong proposed at the Central Politburo meeting: We should "differentiate and treat equally" private industry and commerce. He explained that what he meant by "differentiate" was that state-owned economy took the leading role, which was progressive, and it was not acceptable to reverse the positions. However, we should treat all issues equally, taking into account everyone's needs. "Today's capitalism and commerce are needed by and beneficial to society. It's justifiable for all private industry and commerce to come under the government's wings. It meets the needs of the people and improves the lives of the workers," "Private industry and commerce will exist for a long time, we can't implement socialism very quickly."
2. "Do Not Attack from All Sides"
Centered around the recovery and development of production, and the comprehensive initiation of the construction of New Democracy, the third plenary session of the seventh central committee of the party was held in Beijing in June 1950. The central topic of the meeting was to determine the main tasks of the party during the period of national economic recovery, as well as the necessary work and strategic policies to be adopted for this purpose. It was one of the most important meetings of the central committee of the party in the early days of new China. 
In light of some tendency in dealing with national industries and commerce at that time, to make the work of the party and government cautious and steady, the third plenary session of the seventh term explicitly opposed the "left" inclination of some people in the party who thought "we can prematurely eliminate capitalism and implement socialism". Mao Zedong pointed out in his speech at the meeting: "Some people think that we can prematurely eliminate capitalism and implement socialism. This kind of thinking is wrong and does not suit the situation in our country." "The national bourgeoisie will be eliminated in the future, but for now, we need to unite them with us, not push them away. While we must struggle with them on one hand, on the other we must also unite with them. We need to explain this to the cadre, and prove with facts, that uniting the national bourgeoisie, democratic parties, democrats and intellectuals is correct and necessary." The party's policy towards the national bourgeoisie is still both to unite with and struggle against them, with unity as the prevailing approach; to regulate capital, not to squeeze out capital.
At the meeting, Mao Zedong put forward the famous strategic idea of "Do not attack on all fronts". He said: "Our current overall policy is to purge the remnants of the Kuomintang, special agents, and bandits, to overthrow the landlord class, to liberate Taiwan and Tibet, and to fight against imperialism to the end. In the upcoming land reform to overthrow the entire landlord class, our enemies are big and numerous enough. Faced with such a complex struggle, we are in a tense relationship with the national bourgeoisie, and a portion of workers, peasants, small artisans, and intellectuals are dissatisfied with us. In order to isolate and hit the current enemy, we need to turn those among the people who are dissatisfied with us into supporters. Faced with complex struggles and many difficulties, we must not make too many enemies, we must compromise and ease in one aspect, and concentrate our forces to attack in another direction." "In short, we should not attack on all fronts." "This is our policy, this is our strategic guideline, this is the path of the Third Plenary Session."
On June 23, in his closing speech at the second session of the First National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference, Mao Zedong further stated: "The implementation of socialist transformation on a national scale, that is, the nationalization of private industry and the socialization of agriculture, will take place in the far future. "Our country is progressing steadfastly in such a way that, after going through wars, after carrying out New Democratic reforms, it can calmly and properly enter a new socialist era when the state's economic and cultural undertakings are greatly flourishing."
At the plenary session, Chen Yun gave a report on financial and economic issues and made specific arrangements for the reasonable adjustment of industry and commerce. He pointed out that it is beneficial for the people to take into consideration the five economic components. Only under this method can everyone go together and build a New Democracy and then progress to socialism in the future. However, the positions of the five types of economies vary and they are to be coordinated under the leadership of the state-owned economy. In adjusting the relationship between the public and private sectors, steps need to be taken to organize the production and sales of private factories through processing orders; and to allow private businesses to profit through appropriate adjustments in prices and job distribution for the procurement of agricultural and sideline products.
The Seventh Plenary Session of the Third Central Committee is the first central plenary session held by the Communist Party of China after the founding of New China. The strategic policy of "not attacking on all fronts" that it put forward was proposed by the Party on the basis of the theory of New Democracy society and the Common Program, and based on a scientific analysis of the situation at that time and the class relations within the country and the united front. It timely and clearly criticized the "left" tendency within the party that "capitalism could be eliminated early and socialism implemented". It played a significant role in uniting the thinking of the entire Party, uniting all social forces that can be united, striving for fundamental improvement in the country's financial situation, and prudently and actively carrying out the construction of New Democracy.
II. The Party's Innovative Policy in Rural Areas at the Beginning of New China's Founding 
1. Preserve the rich peasant economy in the land reform of the new region and allow it to develop to a certain extent.
The complete abolition of feudal and semi-feudal land ownership is an important aspect of the New Democratic Revolution and a basic condition for the resumption and development of the national economy. At the founding of the New China, land reform had not taken place in the newly liberated areas, where the feudal land system still existed in two-thirds of the country, severely hindering the development of productive forces. The complete abolition of this land system was a basic task at the beginning of the formation of New China. But unlike in the old liberated areas where the land reform permitted the expropriation of surplus land from the rich peasantry, in the newly liberated areas, a series of new policies were formulated and implemented by the central party in line with the overall situation of fully implementing the program of the New Democratic founding. Among them, the most important one was the preservation of the rich peasant economy. During the land reform in the newly liberated areas, the number of wealthy peasant households accounted for about 3% of the total rural households, and they did not play a significant role in China's economy. But the policies adopted towards the rich peasantry have a direct impact on other strata of peasants, especially the middle peasants, and also have a certain impact on the national bourgeoisie, which is closely tied to the land. To this end, Mao Zedong proposed at the Central Political Bureau meeting discussing the new land reform policies in November 1949 that the rich peasantry in Jiangnan should be treated with caution during land reform. In March 1950, Mao Zedong cabled each Central Bureau for their opinions on the treatment of the rich peasantry, suggesting that in the land reform movement in the newly liberated areas, "not only the capitalist rich peasants should not be touched, but also the semi-feudal rich peasants should not be touched, and the semi-feudal rich peasants could be dealt with several years later". He pointed out that there were three reasons for doing so: Firstly, the scale of the land reform was unprecedented, and it was easy to swing too far to the "left". If we only moved against landlords and not rich peasants, it would be easier to isolate landlords and protect the interests of middle peasants. Secondly, the previous land reform in the North was carried out in the midst of war, and the wartime atmosphere masked the nature of the land reform. Now, with basically no warfare, the land reform is particularly prominent, and the shock it brings to society seems especially significant. Thirdly, our united front with the national bourgeoisie has been formed politically, economically, and organizationally. Given that the national bourgeoisie is closely linked to land issues, it seems appropriate to temporarily not move against the semi-feudal rich peasants for the sake of stabilizing the national bourgeoisie.
When the third plenary session of the seventh session discussed the draft land reform law, according to the opinions raised by some localities, supplements and amendments were made to relevant clauses, changing the original stipulation of "not touching the land and property of the rich peasants", to "protecting the land and property of the rich peasants who own and hire people to cultivate, and not infringing upon them", "but in some special areas, with the approval of people's governments at or above the provincial level, a part or all of their leased land may be expropriated". This policy of the Central Party not only helped politically neutralizing the wealthy peasants and further isolating the landlord class, reducing resistance to land reform, but also encouraged the enthusiasm of the middle peasants to develop production, stabilized the mood of the national bourgeoisie, and prevented the appearance of "leftist" deviations in land reform.
In June 1950, at the second plenary session of the First Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference, Liu Shaoqi presented a report on behalf of the central government entitled "On the Issue of Land Reform". In the report, he further clarified his views on some basic problems in rural areas. He stated that the basic purpose of land reform is focused on production, "not merely to relieve the poor peasants, but to liberate the rural productive forces from the bondage of the feudal land ownership of the landlord class, in order to develop agricultural production and pave the way for the industrialization of New China. Only when agricultural production is greatly developed, the industrialization of New China can be realized, the living standards of the people can be improved, and socialism can eventually be developed, can the problem of poorer peasants be finally solved. Merely carrying out land reform can only partially solve the problem of the poorer peasants, but it cannot solve all the problems of the poorer peasants." "The reason and purpose of land reform are to focus on production," "Every step of land reform must genuinely be taken care of and closely tied to the development of rural production. It is precisely because of this fundamental reason and purpose, that the Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party proposes to preserve the rich peasant economy from destruction in the future land reform. Because the existence and the development to a certain extent of the rich peasant economy are beneficial to the development of the people's economy in our country, and thus are beneficial to the majority of peasants, "is necessary both politically and economically." Based on his understanding of the current nature and tasks of the revolution, he further explained that: "The policy of preserving the rich peasant economy, that we have adopted, is of course not a temporary policy, but a long-term policy. This means that throughout the stage of the new democracy, we need to preserve the rich peasant economy. Only when such conditions are ripe, to the extent that in rural areas we can extensively use machinery, organize collective farms, and carry out the socialist transformation of rural areas, the existence of the rich peasant economy becomes unnecessary, and this is something that can only be achieved in the relatively distant future."
Starting from the winter of 1950, a land reform movement on an unprecedented scale in history began to unfold step by step, in phases, and under leadership, involving nearly 300 million agricultural population of the newly liberated areas. Under the guidance of the new Land Reform Law, not only did the majority of poor and middle peasants get land and other means of production, which fundamentally changed the land occupation relations in our rural areas, but also the rich peasant economy was preserved, and the land and other property of the middle peasants, including the affluent ones, were protected. With the successive completion of the land reforms in the new areas, the enthusiasm of the majority of farmers for production heightened unprecedentedly, the development of agricultural production was sped up, farmer's incomes generally increased, which provided a strong impetus for the recovery and development of the national economy.
The Central Committee's decision on the land reform in the new areas and the exposition of the party's policy towards rich peasants by Mao Zedong, Liu Shaoqi and others, was no longer purely from the perspective of class struggle; instead they emphasized the significant backwardness of the rural productive forces, the rapid development of rural productive forces, and the actual national conditions, in order to independently explore a pathway for China's construction and establish a policy conducive to the development of productive forces. "Some basic views on the land issue, the peasant issue, Marx and Lenin have spoken about, but to deal with China's land, the peasant problem, we still need to innovate, we need to propose specific solutions in line with the actual situation in China. For example, the rich peasant problem, in the past, the excess land and property of the rich peasants were confiscated and divided among the poor tenant farmers-thanks to the war victory today, we need to restore and develop production, hence we need to protect the rich peasant economy." "This is the essence of Marxism, which involves the concrete analysis of concrete conditions." The important policy in the land reform in the new areas, is a brilliant interpretation of the productive force standard by the Chinese communists at the beginning of their rule.
2. The Debate on the Issue of Wealthy Peasant Party Members in the Northeast
After the establishment of New China, in the old liberated areas of the Northeast and North China where land reform was completed earlier, the production and living conditions of peasants generally improved significantly. On the foundation of the recovery and development of agricultural production, many former poor peasants and tenant farmers, with better production conditions and labor skills, gradually increased their economic income and began to have production and living conditions equivalent to that of middle peasants before land reform. Individual farmers were aiming for the goal of wealth through "three horses and a plow—a cart", "thirty acres of land and a cow", and middle peasants gradually became the majority and "central figures" within the rural class. Among the party members, there were also instances of hiring individuals to work independently. 
How to view the trend of middle-class transformation in rural areas and the emerging new wealthy peasants is a completely new problem for the whole party. This problem doesn't have an ready answer in Marxist classic works, and cannot find a reference method from Soviet Union experiences either. At that time, there were different understandings within the party. Most people, based on some discussions from classic authors and the fundamental tenets of the party, believed that Communist party members should not engage in exploitation, should pursue mutual aid, cooperative enrichment, and should restrict the newly emerged wealthy peasants. Others thought that since the state policy allows the existence of wealthy peasants, party members from the new wealthy peasant class should also be permitted to exist. The policies inside and outside the party should be consistent, otherwise, it would affect the enthusiasm of farmers to develop production.
On January 22, 1950, the Central Organization Department, in its draft comments to the Northeast Bureau's Organization Department, expressed its views on the issues of party member labor employment and non-participation in labor transformation. It held that party members should be absolutely free to make decisions on whether to employ labor or participate in labor transformation. The Party should not compel them, and their party membership should not be suspended or expelled due to this. If today's emphasis is overly placed on the prohibition of party members to exploit others, and the obligatory participation in labor transformation, it could negatively affect some party members' production enthusiasm. Experiences across regions have shown that if party members do not employ labor, the masses are not willing to do so; if party members lack dedication to production, it's impossible to inspire a passion for production among the masses. Therefore, when educating party members who are farmers, we should not only stress the benefits of organization but also clearly state that both "independent farming" and "labor employment" are permitted by the Party's policy. It should also be emphasized to all levels of cadres that under today's rural individual economic foundation, the limited development of rural capitalism is inevitable. The development from some party members towards the rich farmers is not a terrifying matter. To question how to deal with party members turning into rich farmers is premature and thus erroneous.
On January 23, Liu Shaoqi issued a letter from the Central Organization Department in response to the Northeast Bureau, and spoke with An Ziwen from the Central Organization Department that evening. He explained that after land reform in the Northeast, rural economy began to flourish. Farmers who owned three horses, a plow, and a large cart were not rich farmers, but middle farmers. Such relatively well-off farmers, with their three horses, one plow and one cart, could and should comprise 80% of the population in a few years. "Currently in the Northeast, we should encourage a large-scale development of such middle farmers." He believed that present mutual aid in the Northeast is based on the bankrupt and poor individual economy, which serves as an unfavorable foundation. "In the future development, each individual economy will be able to produce independently, and the scope of mutual labor exchange will inevitably shrink." Farmers who own three horses can still participate in mutual labor exchange, or choose to farm individually. "Now, 70% of farming households participate in mutual labor exchange, but that will decrease in the future. This is a good phenomenon, proving economic development and a greater portion of farmers becoming middle-class. They are capable of farming individually now, which is the expected outcome. If 70% of farming households own three horses, it will be considerably easier to establish collective farming in the future. So now, we should promote and explain the benefits of labor exchange groups, while also allowing them to work independently." Regarding some people's advocacy for the rapid development from mutual labor exchange to collective farms, Liu Shaoqi believed "it's not possible". He said: "These are two different phases, we must prevent rushing this process." "Going from individual production to collective farms is a revolutionary shift in the production method. Collective farms without machinery and tools won't be sustainable." Regarding the exploitation that still exists in the New Democratic countries, Liu Shaoqi's view was: "Exploitation is still necessary now, and it should be even welcomed. Workers are requesting capitalists to exploit them in order to survive. This year, a large number of refugees relocated to the Northeast, they would be grateful if the rich farmers could exploit them." "Rich farmers hire more people, buy more horses, and should not be restricted. It's a good thing now to let them develop, it has no harm." "They should progress to a certain extent, until future restrictions are put into place." "It's too early to limit independent farming now. Being able to farm independently now is a good thing. It's not accurate to assume anti-independent farming farmers are collectivists, because they are actually poor farmers who are unable to farm independently." "Employing labor, farming independently, should be left to follow their own course. It's ideal for every farmer to have three horses and one plow. As for those who are against labor employment and independent farming, they can't be allowed to follow their own course. For those trying to interfere with those owning three horses, they can't be allowed to operate freely."
Regarding the issue of the party membership status of party members who had already emerged and shown potential of becoming wealthy peasants at the time, Liu Shaoqi's broad vision and deep understanding of the essence of New Democracy theory were revealed when he answered this question. He said, "This issue has been raised too early. It's still possible to be a socialist even if there is exploitation. Saint Simon was a capitalist, but he was also a socialist, although he was idealistic at the time. If a capitalist in the northeast today wants to follow Saint Simon's method, then he might succeed and will not collapse." "Even if there are ten thousand wealthy peasant party members in the northeast in the future, there's no need to fear." "Therefore, current peasant party members can work independently. Our party rules and regulations allow party members to work independently and to employ others. The idea that party members cannot exploit others is a dogmatic thought." "But being able to work independently and should work independently are two different things. We allow party members to work independently, but we don't encourage them to do so."
The victory of New Democratic Revolution and the completion of land reform have liberated the productive forces in the countryside, improving the production and living conditions of the majority of peasants at a relatively fast pace. The emergence of a middle-class peasant culture and the hiring of workers in the countryside are inevitable and unavoidable, because "it is a private ownership society now." The issue lies in how to understand these phenomena. Do we follow the general commentaries of classical Marxist authors or the Stalinist model, or do we proceed from China's national conditions and realities? Do we proceed from abstract ideological standards and moral standards, or from productive force standards? Liu Shaoqi started from the extremely backward level of productive forces in China's countryside, from the urgent need to develop production, and from the National Program of New Democracy. He opposed abstractly negating all exploitation, as if affirming the exploitation of the national bourgeoisie in cities within a certain range and time limit. Affirming the independent work, middle peasant tendency, and a certain degree of exploitation by wealthy peasants in the countryside does not mean denying the cooperation in the countryside, but rather linking cooperation with a certain level of productivity development. "From individual production to collective farming, this is a revolution in the mode of production. Collective farms without machinery cannot be consolidated." This point of view highlights the most basic tenet of Marxism — the theory of productive forces determining, without deliberately emphasizing the reaction of the superstructure and ideology. Under certain conditions, a revolution can succeed in countries with backward productive forces, but to achieve the national program of New Democracy, and to prepare for the transition to socialism, it is necessary to have the corresponding material basis and conditions of productive forces. "Poverty" can trigger a revolution, but it cannot serve as the basis for socialism. The Party's correct policy on issues such as the treatment of wealthy peasants played a significant role in preventing acute issues from the various aspects of social transformation at that time.
III. Consolidation or transition: a major issue involved in a debate.
Since the proposal of the New Democracy theory, the whole Party has been very clear and firm about the transition from New Democracy to Socialism. However, the length of this transition is generally believed to be quite long, due to the backwardness of China's productive forces. This judgement is correct, but it is also rather abstract and vague. Before the establishment of New China, how long the transition period would be was not an urgent issue, but after the establishment of New China, with the start of full-scale construction of the New Democracy, this issue has come to the fore. There are not only a plethora of urgent practical issues raised in practice, but also some major issues that need to be further clarified or developed in theory. It was normal that there was not a consistent understanding within the Party in the face of the various major issues raised by both theory and practice. At that time, how long the New Democracy stage was, when to transition to socialism, what kind of development capitalism could be allowed in the New Democratic country, when to start eliminating bourgeois exploitation...such issues that had not been encountered before were, after the full implementation of the New Democracy, presented to the Party. If we say that the issues mainly involving exploitation in New Democratic society raised by "Tianjin talk", "Rich farmer party members" and so on, then closely following and closely related to them is how to view the issue of starting the transition to socialism.
1. Issues raised by the development of agricultural cooperatives in Shanxi
In the spring of 1951, a debate took place within the party about the issue of developing agricultural cooperatives in Shanxi province. At that time, with the successive completion of land reform, the rural economy generally showed a trend of recovery and development, and some farmers had reached the level of richer peasants. A few richer peasants, relying on their advantages in capital, labor, and farming tools, became new rich peasants through buying land, hiring workers, and charging high interest rates. Some rapidly rising individuals viewed the mutual aid groups established after land reform as "bringing together poor people", leading to the dissolution of some mutual aid groups and a semi-disintegration state. At this point, some farmers started to sell their land, their living standards declined, and they fell into poverty. This was an inevitable phenomenon in the economic development of the New Democracy. According to the understanding at that time, this was a display of the spontaneous trend of the small peasant economy, reflecting the new polarization in the countryside. Some Party cadres had been very concerned about the spontaneous tendency of peasants, fearing that peasants becoming richer could impact the mutual aid groups, and hence started to bring up the idea of "overcoming" the spontaneous forces of peasants.
On April 17, 1951, in Shanxi Province, where land reform and mutual aid cooperation had been completed earlier than in other regions, the Provincial Committee wrote a report to the Central Government and North China Bureau titled "Taking a step forward in mutual aid groups in old revolutionary areas". The report held the view that "as the rural economy recovers and develops, farmers' spontaneous power has developed, but it isn't developing in the direction of modernization and collectivization we demand, but towards the direction of rich peasants. This is the fundamental reason for the dispersion of mutual aid groups." The conclusion of the report was that the development of mutual aid groups in old revolutionary areas has reached a turning point where the groups must improve or they would fall behind. Based on this, the report proposed that new factors, namely "public accumulation" and "distribution according to labor", should be strengthened and increased within mutual aid groups to gradually overcome farmers' spontaneous trend, thoroughly reverse the dispersion and guide the groups towards a higher level. The report posited that "for the foundation of private ownership, the policy should not be to consolidate it, but to gradually shake, weaken, and ultimately refute it."
The North China bureau did not agree with the report by the Shanxi Provincial Committee. Liu Shaoqi also expressed in April: it is not yet mature to take steps to shake private ownership. Without tractors, without chemical fertilizers, we should not be eager to establish agricultural production cooperatives. On May 4th, instructed by Liu Shaoqi and opinions from several other provinces in North China, the North China Bureau responded to the report from the Shanxi Provincial Committee and reported to the central government. The response pointed out that "using the accumulation of public accumulation funds and the method of distribution according to labor to gradually shake, weaken and eventually refute the foundation of private ownership does not align with the spirit of the party's policy in the New Democratic period and the common program; thus, it is wrong. It is a task of the socialist revolution period to generally shake up private property. The main problem for enhancing and consolidating the mutual aid groups at present is how to enrich the content of mutual aid groups and production to meet the demands of farmers for further production, not to shake up private ownership gradually."
Later, Liu Shaoqi criticized the views of the Shanxi Provincial Committee several other occasions. On May 7, 1951, he said at the first national propaganda meeting that it was impossible for the Shanxi Provincial Committee to go directly to socialism with cooperatives of socialist nature. "If you believe in this theory, it is an illusion of socialism, it is utopian socialism, also called utopian agricultural socialism, and it cannot be realized." "There are a lot of agricultural socialist thoughts within our party in China, and these thoughts must be corrected." "Because socialism can't be established just relying on the conditions in the countryside, the socialization of agriculture depends on industry." "With the nationalization of industry and land, farmers can then become collective." "If you call organizing cooperatives and developing mass movements socialism, it's a big mistake, it's called utopian agricultural socialism."
On July 3rd, Liu Shaoqi annotated the report "One Step Forward for Mutual Aid Organizations in the Old Districts" by the Shanxi Provincial Committee and called for its circulation to Marxist-Leninist Institute students, members of the Central Committee, and the Central Bureau. The annotation stated: "In the rural areas after the land reform, in the process of economic development, the spontaneous power of the peasants and class differentiation have begun to emerge. Some comrades within the Party are afraid of this spontaneous power and class differentiation, and are trying to stop or avoid it. They fantasize about achieving this aim of stopping or avoiding this trend through the use of labour mutual aid groups and supply and marketing cooperatives." "This is an erroneous, dangerous, utopian socialist agrarian idea. This document from the Shanxi Provincial Committee is an example of this type of thinking."
On the afternoon of July 5th, Liu Shaoqi, while delivering a lecture to the students of the Marxist-Leninist Institute, further discussed his critique of the Shanxi Provincial Committee. He said that the spontaneous force of the peasants cannot be stopped. "The Shanxi Provincial Committee of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) wants to defeat it, stop it, avoid it, and this is impossible." "There are people who are afraid of this spontaneous force, and who attempt to stop it. This is stepping onto the wrong path." "Trying to gradually weaken, and even deny private peasant property within mutual aid groups, moving towards agricultural collectivization. This is impossible, this is reformism. Wanting to gradually, step-by-step, move towards socialism is rightist, and at the same time destroying private property is a 'left' adventurous inclination."
These views from Liu Shaoqi reflect a line of thought within the Party on the issue of agricultural mutual aid cooperation, that is, in accordance with the thought of building a New Democracy nation, after the land reform, there should be a development period for individual peasant economy; wait until there is a certain level of development in agricultural productivity, especially when industrialization has reached a certain level and can support agriculture with certain industrial products, then practical actions to begin agricultural cooperation can be taken. In other words, the development of the agricultural mutual aid cooperation movement has to be in line with the level of productivity development and meet the actual needs of farmers, and it cannot artificially hasten to eliminate the individual private ownership of the peasants beyond the level of productivity.
After reading the reports from the Shanxi Provincial Committee and the North China Bureau, as well as Liu Shaoqi's comments, Mao Zedong explicitly expressed his support for the opinion of the Shanxi Provincial Committee. He criticized the notion that mutual aid groups could not grow into agricultural production cooperatives and the idea that private property could not be destabilized at the current stage. His justification was: since Western capitalism had a stage in its development process where it was still a workshop industry, that is, it had not yet adopted steam-powered machinery and relied on unified management to form new productive forces, then Chinese cooperatives, relying on unified management to form new productive forces and destabilize private property, were also feasible. Mao Zedong's arguments persuaded Liu Shaoqi and others, and they retracted their opinions, thus ending the debate.
2. Resolution on Agricultural Production Mutual Aid Cooperatives
Based on Mao Zedong's proposal, the central government convened the first National Agricultural Mutual Aid Cooperative Conference in September 1951. Following the conference, the draft of "Resolution of the CPC Central Committee on Agricultural Production Mutual Aid Cooperation (Draft)" (hereinafter referred to as the "Resolution") was drafted. During the drafting process, Mao Zedong listened to different opinions, affirming the enthusiasm of peasants for mutual aid cooperation and their individual economies; he noted the need to guard against both 'right' and 'left' deviations. The revised "Resolution", based on the theoretical viewpoints articulated by Mao Zedong, also incorporated the concerns of Liu Shaoqi and others about the importance of individual peasant economies, and the need for organized work to suit the needs of production development. The "Resolution" pointed out that the enthusiasm of peasants for production, promoted on the basis of land reform, is expressed in two ways: on the one hand, in the enthusiasm for individual economies, and on the other hand, in the enthusiasm for mutual labor assistance. Given the existing economic conditions in the countryside, for a considerable period of time, a large proportion of peasant economies will inevitably be individual ones, and the enthusiasm of peasants for individual economies cannot be ignored or bluntly discouraged. At the same time, in order to help peasants overcome the difficulties of individual family operations, avoid polarization, develop production, construct water conservancy, resist natural disasters, adopt agricultural machinery and other new technologies, and provide the state with more grain and industrial raw materials, it is necessary to advocate for "organization" and bring into play the enthusiasm of peasants for mutual labor assistance. The future development direction is agricultural collectivization. The "Resolution" proposes: in accordance with the needs and possible conditions of production development, a policy of active development and steady progress should be adopted. Guided by the principles of voluntary mutual benefit, exemplary demonstration, and state assistance, peasants should be gradually guided towards the path of mutual aid cooperation.
On October 17, Mao Zedong drafted a bulletin from the Central Committee forwarding Gao Gang's report on mutual aid and cooperation in the rural areas of the northeast, endorsing the guiding principles proposed in Gao Gang's report. According to Gao Gang's report, with middle peasants now forming the majority in the countryside and the spontaneous inclination of the peasants developing, the main deviation to be opposed and prevented in guiding the work of mutual aid and cooperation is not the infringement of the interests of the middle peasants, but the spontaneous inclination of the peasants; their main worry is no longer "fearing development" or "fearing joining the big pile", but demanding a rapid expansion of reproduction. On December 15, Mao Zedong's draft notice from the Central Committee about the distribution of the "Resolution on Agricultural Production Mutual Aid and Cooperation (Draft)" pointed out: This is to be explained and implemented in all areas where land reform has been completed, and the entire Party should treat agricultural mutual aid and cooperation as a significant matter. Based on this spirit, the national movement of agricultural mutual aid and cooperation soon started nationwide, and this became one of the bases for proposing the general line for the transition period in the second half of 1952. 
The debate surrounding the issue of agricultural production cooperatives development in Shanxi is a continuation of the debate on the rich peasants issue in northeastern China in 1950, and actually later developed into the debate on agricultural collectivization in 1955. With the development of history, the problems and their significance reflected in these debates have been increasingly profoundly manifested. It should be noted that there is no principle divergence within the Party on guiding individual peasants to organize themselves and take the collective path, and all adhere to the New Democracy Guiding Principles and the spirit of the Seventh Central Committee's second plenary session. The disagreement lies in whether it should be now or in the future, whether it should be after the productivity development reaches a certain level or now, the mutual aid groups in the old areas should be elevated to semi-socialist nature agricultural cooperatives, that is, whether the rural areas after land reform should immediately transition to socialism. Liu Shaoqi and the North China Bureau believed that the private foundation of mutual aid groups should not be shaken at present, and socialist steps should wait until rural productivity has developed to a certain degree. Mao Zedong and the Shanxi Provincial Committee believed that the mutual aid groups in the old areas can be elevated a step further to establish semi-socialist nature agricultural production cooperatives.
Due to the limitations of the era and practice, there are inevitably certain historical limitations on both sides of the debate, but considering the importance of the debated issues and the theoretical height reached by the debate, their typical significance and subsequent impact cannot be ignored. Speaking of Liu Shaoqi and others, there are some oversimplifications in critiquing the Shanxi Provincial Committee, such as equating the "elevation of agricultural production mutual aid groups to collective farms" with the negligible, and even outright denial of the private ownership basis, and broadly labeling them as "erroneous, dangerous, idealistic agricultural socialism-thinking"; without specifying that although China did not have the conditions to universally establish advanced agricultural production cooperatives at that time, it did not rule out the search for specific ways to transition to advanced societies; overly emphasized that industrialization and modernization are prerequisites for cooperation, essentially copying the viewpoint in the Soviet model that machinery must come before cooperation, and so on. However, from a later practice perspective and considering main aspects, the views of Liu Shaoqi and others were correct. For instance, he believed that the polarization between the two extremes in the countryside after land reform was inevitable, which had a negative side, but under the conditions at that time was conducive to promoting the development of productivity; due to China's economic backwardness, the negation of private ownership should not be rushed, and we should continue to implement the New Democracy policy; he consciously linked the agricultural socialist transformation with the country's industrialization, and so forth. These issues upheld the basic principles of Marxism and have some important innovations based on the reality in China. If the Party had had a more comprehensive discussion on these fundamental issues that essentially affect socialist transformation and construction, then there might have been fewer twists and turns afterwards.
IV. Comprehensive Implementation of New Democracy Construction
From 1949 to 1952, during the period of comprehensive implementation of New Democratic reforms and construction, the Party Central Committee also carried out a series of creative practices and thinking on the construction of New Democratic politics.
1. Democratization and Industrialization cannot be separated.
At the beginning of the founding of New China, when the conditions for holding a general election of the People's Congress were not yet prepared, the construction of democratic politics began with the creation and use of representative conferences of people from all walks of life, which has a semi-authority nature. At that time, the party central committee attached great importance to the convening of representative meetings of people from all walks of life. In the first month after the establishment of the Central People's Government, Mao Zedong forwarded the experience of holding representative meetings of people from all walks of life in Songjiang County, Shanghai and North China cities to various central bureaus and sub-bureaus, requiring that "please issue orders to all subordinates to follow suit". He pointed out that if more than a thousand counties across the country could hold representative meetings of people from all walks of life, and do a good job, "it will be extremely important for our party to connect with tens of millions of people, and for a large number of cadres both inside and outside the party to receive education".
According to the provisions of the "Common Program", in December 1949, the central people's government issued general rules for the organization of representative meetings of people from all walks of life at the provincial, city, and county levels, stipulating that places that met the conditions should hurry to hold representative meetings of people from all walks of life. Through this form of organization, all levels of party and government leadership organs can hear the voices of the masses, understand the demands of the masses, and obtain the assistance of the masses to solve difficulties and carry out work. The third plenary session of the Seventh Central Committee of the Party in 1950 also emphasized the work of democratic governance, pointing out that it was necessary to seriously hold representative meetings of the people that could unite people from all walks of life to work together, and all important work of the people's government should be discussed and decided by the representative meetings of the people.
In the process of guiding and mobilizing the convening of the People's Congress, Liu Shaoqi also put forward the idea that democratization and industrialization cannot be separated. In February 1952, Liu Shaoqi pointed out in his speech at the third session of the Beijing People's Congress that it was an important political construction task to hold the People's Congress well and link it with the economic construction of the country, especially industrialization. He clearly stated: "Democratization and industrialization cannot be separated." He said: "Without the democratization of our country, without the development of the new democratic regime, the development of the new democratic economy and the industrialization of the country cannot be guaranteed. Conversely, the development of the new democratic economy and the industrialization of the country, need to greatly strengthen and consolidate the foundation of the new democratic regime. Therefore, our basic slogan is: Democratization and Industrialization!" Understanding and emphasizing the relationship and characteristics of the economic and political construction of the new democracy from such a perspective reflects the vision and ideals of the Communists. Although the understanding of this goal was preliminary at that time, and although many twists and turns took place in the process of achieving this goal, it can be regarded as forward-thinking that the party was able to identify and propose the problem at that time during the early days of its rule.
2. Adherence to the System of Multi-party Cooperation and Political Consultation
During the process of democratic governance, the Central Party Committee adhered to the system of multi-party cooperation and political consultation. At the beginning of the establishment of New China, because some people inside and outside the Party had a vague understanding of the new democratic society, the impatient and rash emotions that emerged in dealing with the policies of the bourgeoisie could easily transform into a "left" bias in dealing with the policies of the democratic parties. Some Party cadres could not properly handle their relationships with democratic parties and non-party figures, and at one point implemented policies that marginalized them. At the first national conference on united front work held in March 1950, some opinions suggested that the democratic parties should not be elevated politically, nor expanded organizationally, otherwise they would create trouble for us. Some even believed that the democratic parties were established to fight for democracy, and with democracy achieved, their mission was completed; the democratic parties had only contributed "the merit of a single hair," and so on. In response to these erroneous tendencies, Mao Zedong pointed out in April of the same year: disregarding the importance of democratic parties and non-party figures is a societal phenomenon. It exists not only within the Party, but also outside of it. It needs to be made clear to everyone that, in the long run and on the whole, democratic parties are necessary. Democratic parties connect with the petty bourgeoisie and the bourgeoisie, and their representatives must be present in the government. It is incorrect to consider the democratic parties as contributing only "the merit of a single hair." From the perspective of those they connect with, it is not a single hair, but a full head of hair, not to be underestimated. We should treat them as equals and implement democracy.
Zhou Enlai also pointed out in his report at the National United Front Work Conference: regardless of their names, all democratic parties are still political parties and have a certain level of representation. "They have grown from China's soil." He criticized the view that democratic parties would "create trouble for us," stating, "Democratic parties play a rather important role within the People's Democratic United Front." Our People's Democratic Dictatorship constitutes an alliance of four democratic classes at this stage. Democratic parties can develop and have a promising future. We need to cooperate for a long time, work together, build New China, and complete the tasks assigned by history. He specifically mentioned the bourgeoisie, saying: "Today, the national bourgeoisie still has its historical tasks," and encouraged people of the bourgeoisie to be confident - they not only have historical tasks, but also a bright future.
In January of the following year, Zhou Enlai emphasized at a tea party held at the Central United Front Department that: "Today, in the construction of New China, if the democratic parties are willing to take a share of responsibility, we should help them move towards socialism. We need to handle well the four aspects of relationships within the united front, namely: the class relationship, party relationship, ethnic relationship, and superior-subordinate relationship; for the peasant class, the bourgeoisie, and other petty bourgeoisie, we must carry out long-term education, "not only to educate them to build a new democratic society with us, but also to take them to a socialist society." He also mainly addressed some vague thoughts inside the party on the issue of the united front, saying that the people's democratic dictatorship is the political power of the people's united front led by the Communist Party, and we should pay more attention to the issue of the united front. He said: "Due to the long-term war conditions in the past, we have formed a habit of often issuing orders in the name of the party, especially so in the army. Now that we have entered a period of peace and established a national government, we should change this habit." "Work can only be done well through the unity of non-party members," the lower-level organizations should pay more attention to this, non-party members should have positions and rights. In the local governments below the county level, in addition to the poor and hired peasants, representatives of the new wealthy peasants, affluent middle peasants, handicraftsmen, and intellectuals should also be absorbed to participate in representative meetings.
When the Central People's Government was established in 1949, in accordance with the "Common Program" requirements, non-Communist Party members occupied a certain proportion in the structure of the Central People's Government and the Government Affairs Council. However, the party's policy of long-term cooperation with democratic parties did not stop at the central level, it was also reflected in the composition of local governments at all levels. Mao Zedong, when approving the list of provincial people's government chairmen, felt that there were too many Communist Party members, and suggested adding a few representatives from the bourgeoisie. On March 8, 1951, the Central Office issued an instruction requiring that a certain number of non-party members must be allocated to people's government committees at all levels. Suitable candidates should be found among the members of different democratic parties, working and peasant labor role models, patriotic intellectuals, technical experts, and businessmen. If the proportion of non-party members in people's government committees at all levels is too low, higher-level party committees and people's governments should not approve or report it. This matter should become one of the criteria for reviewing the quality of the united front work in various regions.
In accordance with the requirements of the "Common Program" and the emphasis by Mao Zedong and other central leaders, the idea of the party's long-term cooperation with non-party democrats gradually became clear and solidified. All levels of government departments were relatively aware of sincerely discussing and resolving those problems that must be discussed and resolved with non-party members, giving them positions and powers and conditions to carry out their duties on their job posts. The implementation of the new democratic nation-building program in the construction of political power adapted the superstructure to the economic base and the level of productive forces development. This was an important reason for the rapid recovery of the economy at the time and the smooth progress of various social reform initiatives.
3. The Work with Ethnic Minorities and Religious Work during the Construction of New Democracy
In various undertakings carried out at that time, the central government always showed high regard for ethnic minority work. Considering the socio-economic conditions in minority areas, the central government formulated a “prudent and steady” reform policy distinct from Han areas. In June 1950, Mao Zedong emphasized during the 3rd Plenary Session of the 7th Central Committee that social reform in minority areas was a major issue that had to be treated with caution. No mass-based reform work should be performed without mass prerequisites, people's armed forces, and officials from the ethnic minorities. During the process of establishing a democratic united government in ethnic regions, Mao proposed that a large number of people who could cooperate with us should be absorbed from minorities to participate in government affairs and, within this cooperation, a large number of minority cadres should be trained. In June 1950, Zhou Enlai proposed that we should provide more subsidies and expenditure on the trade in minority areas in the future, allowing ethnic minority compatriots to benefit more. The cultivation of minority officials should be considered a political task. The government of autonomous regions should appoint leaders from minorities. In National People's Congress, representatives from all aspects of the minority should be included, and the proportion can be larger.
Unity and progress with religious people under the banner of New Democracy was also an important policy at the beginning of the People's Republic of China. In May 1950, Zhou Enlai pointed out in several conversations at a symposium on Christian issues that religious organizations should be independent, self-reliant and establish self-governing, self-supporting, and self-propagating churches. Whether a religious organization is good for New China should be judged based on the conditions of patriotism and democracy. Those who believe or do not believe in religion can cooperate politically, coexist, and should respect each other. Cooperation can be implemented on the basis of the "Common Program." "We should unite and care for various social forces to let everyone find their place, work together, and build New China. Only in this way can social stability and steady progress be achieved."
4. New Democratic Ideology, Culture and Education
While carrying out various economic constructions and social reforms, the Central Committee of the Party began to propagate and educate the people with the ideologies of Marxism-Leninism and Mao Zedong, making them the guiding thought to mobilize all social forces for the construction of New China. At that time, the wide and deep implementation of the New Democratic culture and education, centered on Marxism and Mao Zedong Thought, was essentially national, scientific, and popular. The essence or innovation of this education conducted by the Party lies in that it is New Democratic education guided by Marxism. In May 1951, Liu Shaoqi proposed at the First National Propaganda Work Conference, "Educating the people across the nation with the ideological principles of Marxism is one of the most basic political tasks of our Party." He said, "We need to purge imperialism and feudalistic thought, criticize all non-proletarian thoughts, so as to establish the dominance of Marxist-Leninist — the worker's thought." This "is the prerequisite for strengthening the leadership of the working class politically and economically." As for the ideological systems of the bourgeoisie and the petty bourgeoisie, they need to be criticized, but can not and will not be purged. Why is that? Liu Shaoqi explained that, "because today we still allow the existence of bourgeois economics in our policy, we allow the existence of petty bourgeois and peasant economics, not only do we allow their existence, but we also need to promote their growth. Since we acknowledge their economic existence, we must also acknowledge the existence and legality of their thoughts." However, allowing their existence does not mean they are not contested. "If you don't refute it, there is a problem, which is the question of who will overcome whom." "Therefore, although we can't declare it illegal now, we must refute it and point out its mistakes. In this way, the leading role of workers' thoughts can only be established, and the political and economic victories of the working class can be guaranteed, ensuring the victory of Marxism-Leninism in China." This ideological and cultural route, different from both socialist and capitalist ones, is beneficial in preventing and correcting tendencies that overstep stages in economics and politics, adapting to the needs of New Democracy economic foundation and development of productive forces.
5. Two Contradictions in New Democratic Society
After the establishment of New China, the large number of sharp class contradictions in society began to gradually decrease, and a large number of contradictions among the people in the New Democratic society began to stand out. What characteristics do these new social contradictions and social relations have, how will they develop, and how to deal with these contradictions? These new issues related to the construction of New China attracted the attention of the party central committee and some senior cadres. At that time, there were some different understandings within the party. Between May and June 1951, Liu Shaoqi wrote in the notes he made while reading related articles: "When the state of the working class has been established and the factories have been nationalized, and after the democratic reforms were carried out, there are no longer class antagonisms and exploitative relationships within our state-owned factories. The relationship between the factory management and the workers has fundamentally become a comradely relationship"; "There are no class contradictions within the state-owned factories". "What needs to be dealt with in state-owned factories is no longer the class contradiction and exploitation relationship and the issues arising from this contradiction and relationship", but the "contradiction and relationship within the working class and the people". This "is a contradiction that we need to seriously adjust and deal with over a long period of time", "should be dealt with in a comradely, reconciliatory, and united manner". The basic contradiction within state-owned factories is "the contradiction between the factory management and the workers, that is, the public-private contradiction within the factory". Based on this, he further discussed the contradiction issues in the New Democratic society. It can be seen that contradictions can generally be divided into two types: one is fundamentally antagonistic irreconcilable contradictions; the other is fundamentally non-antagonistic reconcilable contradictions. When we observe problems, we must distinguish the different nature of these two contradictions. "Starting from a specific problem and special contradiction, Liu Shaoqi revealed the characteristics of the "contradictions among the people" that have universality in the new society, emphasized the importance of distinguishing between the two kinds of contradictions and correctly dealing with them, and reflected the keen observation and correct analysis of the new society and new problems by the senior leadership of the party, which has a pioneering significance. Although the discussion was not fully unfolded for various reasons at the time, later history showed that it was the precursor of Mao Zedong's formal, comprehensive, and systematic proposal in 1956 to correctly deal with the two kinds of contradictions, and was the beginning of the party's exploration to solve various social contradictions under the conditions of socialism while in power.
6."Three Years of Preparation, Ten Years of Planned Economic Construction"
At the Third Plenary Session of the Seventh Central Committee of the Party, the Party Central Committee originally planned to use three to five years to restore production, and then carry out large-scale economic construction, but the Korean War forced the Central Committee to adjust its plans. In February 1951, based on the situation that the Korean War had stabilized and all works in the country were progressing smoothly, Mao Zedong put forward the idea of "three years of preparation, ten years of planned economic construction" at the enlarged meeting of the Central Political Bureau. The Central Committee believed that the Chinese people were confident to complete the task of economic recovery in three years, so it was necessary to put forward the task of preparing for planned economic construction to the Party's leadership. They need to understand that all the current work is a direct preparation for the upcoming task of national industrialization.
In May and July of that year, delegated by Mao Zedong, Liu Shaoqi successively reported to the cadres attending the first national publicity work conference and the first-term students of the Marxist-Leninist Institute, comprehensively expounding the Central Committee's important thoughts on "three-year preparation, ten-year economic construction plan". Besides arguing about the preparation work in military, political, cultural, and economic aspects during the "preparation period", the report specifically mentioned the status and significance of this strategic thought in the whole New Democratic society in response to the party's eagerness to transition to socialism (including the debate with the Shanxi Provincial Committee). He said that, after three years of preparation, we will have a ten-year economic construction plan. Ten years later, China will be a more affluent country than it is now. "Only then can we consider the issue of transitioning to socialism. It can't be raised yet. There are people talking about socialism now, and I say it's too early, at least ten years early." "Socialism can't be discussed within ten years of construction. After ten years of good construction, then we can consider this issue: when to implement socialism? But we still need to look at the actual situation to answer this question. After ten years, some considerable socialist steps may be taken; it may also be that we cannot take these steps at that time, and we need to wait a few more years."
"The New Democratic stage is both a transitional phase and a preparatory phase for socialism. The three-year preparation and ten-year construction is preparation for the industrialization of the state; a few more years will be needed, and not until at least fifteen years later can we start the collectivization of agriculture."
"During the ten-year economic construction, the five economic components must all be developed." Among them, the development of state-owned enterprises will be very fast, their proportion will increase, and their leadership and control roles will become increasingly large; the cooperative economy can develop rapidly, and its proportion and role will also increase; although the absolute numbers of private capitalist economy will increase, their proportion will not rise but decrease; the state capitalist economy will increase; the individual economy will also develop and be organized more.
In October 1952, Zhou Enlai also conveyed a similar idea while talking with representatives of some capitalists, "As for the future, I have repeatedly said that Chairman Mao's principle is to proceed step by step. It might take three years to recover, followed by a decade or two of development. The development of the new democratic economy may take ten or twenty years, and we can't predict the exact timeline," he said. "The industrialization of China is an issue of decade or two. Haste makes waste, hence we must proceed steadily."
In this context, the explanation of the "three-year preparation and a ten-year plan for economic construction" ideology reflects the initial views of the central leadership of the Party on when to start shifting towards socialism. This strategic deployment by the Party illustrates that from 1949 to 1952, the Party's fundamental assumption was that the People's Republic of China is a new democratic country, which will evolve from new democratic society to a socialist society, and this might require ten years or a longer transition period. This was consistent with the "New Democracy" theory and the approach pre and post the Party's Seventh Congress.
Proceeding from this basic assumption, at the first national organizational meeting convened by the Party Central Committee in March 1951, Liu Shaoqi, representing the Central Committee, gave a keynote report. According to the Party Constitution and the actual situation, he proposed the "eight criteria for Communist Party members". The second criteria stated "The ultimate goal of the Communist Party of China is to establish a communist system in China. Currently, it struggles to strengthen the new democratic system and in the future, it will struggle to transition to socialism." The phrase "currently struggling to consolidate the new democratic system" conformed to the recognition and deployment of the Central Committee at that time, but it was criticized after the transition to socialism began soon after.
V. Achievements and Understanding Deficiencies in the Construction of New Democracy
In the first three years after the establishment of the People's Republic of China, the Party Central Committee, based on the conditions of China, combined Marxism with the actuality of China, and creatively carried out the construction of a new democratic society comprehensively, based on the success of the New Democratic Revolution. Regardless of the state system, the political system, or the structure of the national economy, the political structure and their interactions, the socialist model of the Soviet Union was not arbitrarily imitated. Instead, a wonderful shot was taken in the process of sinicization of Marxism.
1. Achievements in the construction of new democracy
In these three years, under the guidance of the New Democracy nation-building agenda, New China achieved extensive, profound, and historically significant changes. Politically, the alliance between the people's democratic front, composed of four classes, was consolidated and developed, with the proletariat in the lead and the worker-peasant alliance as the base. The people's democratic dictatorship was continuously strengthened and consolidated. From the central government to local levels, up to the streets of the cities and the towns in the countryside, an effective and flexible governing system was firmly established from top to bottom. Economically, through movements such as the confiscation of bureaucrat capital and land reforms, various New Democratic reforms were carried out in depth, breaking the feudal and semi-feudal relations of production that hindered the development of productive forces. A socialist, state-operated economy and a cooperative economy were established while encouraging and supporting state capitalism, private capitalism, and individual economies beneficial to national economy and people's livelihood. The mixed economic structure of these five economic systems created favorable conditions for the development of New China's economy. Centralized national financial management greatly strengthened the state's control over economic operation and economic resources, which was absolutely necessary for a backward oriental country that had just ended wars and needed to prepare conditions for industrialization quickly. Culturally, the existing cultural and educational undertakings were gradually reformed, establishing a new ideology dominated by Marxism and Mao Zedong Thought and forming a consensus among all ethnic groups to jointly build a New Democratic society.
By combining the restoration of the national economy with social reform and adjustment of the interests of all classes, and fully implementing the policy of division of labor and cooperation with each doing his part under the leadership of the state-owned economy, the urban and rural economy was invigorated, and the social and economic structure was significantly improved. Among the five economic components, the state-owned economy grew first, and the cooperative economy, private capitalist economy, individual economy, and state capitalist economy all developed significantly, greatly enhancing the level of social productivity in a short period of time. Along with the recovery and development of the economy, the proportion of socialist economic elements in the national economy gradually increased, and the socialist elements originally present in the New Democratic economy continuously strengthened and expanded their scope.
Against profound changes in economic and social relations, the national economy underwent comprehensive recovery and preliminary development. Agricultural production developed rapidly, and industrial production not only quickly recovered but also built a number of urgently needed new industrial enterprises according to plan. By the end of 1952, China's total grain output and industrial product output not only exceeded the levels of 1949, but also surpassed the historical peak of 1936. The transportation, postal, and telecommunications sectors recovered quickly, promoting the exchange of goods throughout the country. State fiscal revenues increased multiple times, and people's livelihoods improved generally. These profound changes ensured that the whole country gradually marched towards socialism along the path of New Democracy, setting a good start for China's gradual transformation from an agricultural country to an industrial one.
The practice in the first three years since the establishment of New China has proven that under the historical conditions of very low levels of productivity and extremely backward economic bases, starting from the actual situation of productive forces, that is, starting from the national conditions of China, rather than considering problems from the experiences and models of the Soviet Union, creating conditions for the transition to socialism through the development of New Democracy is a successful path.
At the beginning of the founding of New China, the multifaceted development of the construction of New Democracy further enriched the Party's understanding of the New Democratic society that had already been formed during the period of the New Democratic revolution, and extended and developed it under new historical conditions. It embodies the characteristics of the combination of Marxism and the actual conditions of China, accumulated new practical experience for promoting the development of social productive forces, and made various necessary preparations for the completion of the great transition from the New Democracy to socialism. The practice of these three years is a masterpiece of successfully realizing the sinicization of Marxism, and it embodies the characteristic of the "extension" of the first historical leap in the sinicization of Marxism under new historical conditions.
2. The Internal Contradictions of New Democratic Society
However, it should also be seen that, in the construction and reform at the beginning of the founding of the New China, due to historical constraints, the Party had some obvious limitations and differences in its understanding of some important issues during the development stage of New Democracy. As Liu Shaoqi pointed out in his famous "Chun Ou Zhai Speech" in July 1951: "The historical mission of our Party in the future is generally clear to comrades. That is, to transition from a new democratic society to a socialist society, and finally to a communist society." But "As for how to move forward specifically, what key issues are in progress, I am afraid it is not very clear, the party has not discussed much, many comrades have different thoughts, and opinions are not consistent on many issues." These limitations are mainly manifested in the following aspects.
Regarding the social nature after the founding of New China. After the founding of New China, what is the social nature of China? The Second Plenary Session of the Seventh Party Congress pointed out that the task after the victory of our country's New Democratic Revolution is to steadily "transition from the New Democratic country to the Socialist country". The "Common Program" also declares that "the People's Republic of China is a New Democratic, that is, a people's democratic state". These regulations reflect the historical process of the Chinese revolution, and more importantly, reflect the social character of the early days of New China and its future development. However, in specific practice, the party's understanding of the nature and characteristics of the new democratic society is still unstable, and there are differences in understanding. In some cases, the party often equates the concept of the transition period of Marx's classic writers with the new democratic society, and calls this stage a transition period.
The political transition period that Marx talks about in "Critique of the Gotha Programme" refers to the transition from capitalist society to the first stage of communist society, that is, socialist society, and the object of analysis is the capitalist country with the highest level of productivity at the time. In our country, if we look at the general and broad social development process, it is of course possible to define the social nature of the early days of New China with the concept of the transition period, and to call this stage as the transition to socialism. But this broad understanding is not conducive to highlighting the characteristics of the new democratic society, and it is these characteristics that embody the Chinese Communist Party's innovation and development of Marxism, and reflect the new achievements of the sinicization of Marxism. In our country, the new democratic society established on a very backward basis requires a relatively stable development stage to provide the political and material foundation for the transition to socialist society. If there is a lack of concrete analysis of the actual social situation after the founding of New China and an accurate estimate of the development level of China's social productivity, it is often difficult to grasp the particularity, difficulty, and long-term nature of the transition from new democracy to socialism, and it is easy to produce a "leftist" sentiment eager to transition to socialism. Obviously, the theory of the transition period cannot accurately and comprehensively reflect the social nature of the early days of New China, which must have some impact on recognizing the inevitability and necessity of a new democratic society, and it must also have some influence on the Party's decision to formulate the strategy of this stage and timely guide China to enter the socialist stage.
On the main contradiction (or basic contradiction) and main (central) task of the new democratic society. Regarding this issue, the Party has had various expressions. At the party's Second Plenary Session of the Seventh Central Committee in March 1949, Mao Zedong's statement was "the contradiction between the working class and the bourgeoisie and the contradiction between China and imperialist countries". In June 1949, Liu Shaoqi also stated in a report outline: in the new democratic economy composed of five economic elements, there exists "the struggle between socialist factors and trends and capitalist factors and trends, which is the struggle between the proletariat and the bourgeoisie ". This is "the basic contradiction within new China after the elimination of imperialism and feudal forces." Therefore, defining the contradiction between the proletariat and the bourgeoisie, socialism and capitalism as the main contradiction at the beginning of the New China has become a relatively consistent understanding of the central leadership at the time.
Closely corresponding to this is the understanding of the Party's main task at that time. Mao Zedong pointed out in his report at the Second Plenary Session of the 7th Central Committee that the central task of the Party in the liberated areas "is to mobilize all efforts to restore and develop production, which is where the focus of all work lies." Liu Shaoqi also emphasized in June 1949: "The central task in the future is how to restore and develop China's economy. "Taking economic construction and productive development as the central task of the Party during the New Democratic period was a unanimous opinion within the Party's leadership at the time. However, according to the framework that the main contradiction determines the central task, a problem that is not easy to explain arises, that is how to understand their relationship, or how to understand the issue of the separation of the main contradiction and the central work. The occurrence of this problem, on the one hand, reflects the gap between theory and practice after the rapid victory of the revolution; on the other hand, it reflects the urgent need for traditional Marxist theory to advance with the times in the face of the reality of the people's democratic state that emerged after the war.
In fact, the main leaders of the Party at that time had noticed this problem and had new thoughts. On the eve of the founding of New China, Liu Shaoqi had new thoughts on the main contradiction of the New Democratic society. On July 4, 1949, Liu Shaoqi, during his visit to the Soviet Union, made a new explanation of the main contradiction in his report to Stalin. He said that some people say that after overthrowing the Kuomintang regime and implementing land reform, "the contradiction between the Chinese proletariat and bourgeoisie, immediately becomes the main contradiction, and the struggle between workers and capitalists immediately becomes the main struggle". He believes that this statement is incorrect, "Because if a regime mainly fights against the bourgeoisie, then it has started or is starting to turn into the dictatorship of the proletariat. This will drive the national bourgeoisie, which can still cooperate with us, to the side of imperialism. If implemented in China at present, this is a dangerous, adventurous policy." The report proposes that "for a considerably long period after the overthrow of the Kuomintang regime", "the main contradictions and struggles" are still "external contradictions and struggles", that is, the contradictions and struggles with the three major enemies and Kuomintang remnants. As for the contradictions and struggles between classes and parties within the people's democratic dictatorship, that is, internal contradictions and struggles, "this will gradually intensify in the future, but will still remain in a subordinate position compared to external contradictions for a considerable period of time". The report also says, "From now on in China, to implement general national capitalization, it will need to go through many steps and take a considerable period." It is estimated to take 10 to 15 years. During this period, the working class must carry out necessary and appropriate struggles against the bourgeoisie, but at the same time "must also reach necessary and appropriate compromises with the national bourgeoisie in order to concentrate their efforts to deal with foreign enemies and overcome the backward aspects of China". Here, Liu Shaoqi's discourse on the main contradiction is obviously different from that of the Second Plenary Session of the Seventh Central Committee of the Party. This should be seen as the development and supplement to the original understanding by the Party Central Committee according to the evolved situation and tasks.
For a period of time after the founding of the People's Republic of China, the new understanding of Liu Shaoqi was recognized by leaders such as Mao Zedong and Zhou Enlai. In their practical work, they not only did not treat the contradiction between the proletariat and the bourgeoisie as the main contradiction in society, but have repeatedly criticized the viewpoint that the national bourgeoisie has become the main object of struggle both inside and outside the party. For instance, Mao Zedong also expressed the same thought at the third plenary session of the Seventh Central Committee of the Party in 1950. He wrote on the transcript of a talk in April 1950 at the business group discussion at the United Front Work Conference, "Today's main objects of struggle are the remnants of imperialist feudalism and its puppet Kuomintang reactionaries, not the national bourgeoisie. There is a struggle against the national bourgeoisie, but it must be united and handled with a policy of unity and struggle to pursue the goal of common development of the national economy." When talking about the restriction and squeezing of private businesses, Mao said, "What should be restricted and squeezed are those businesses that aren't beneficial to the national economy and people's livelihood, that is, speculative businesses, luxury goods, and superstition businesses, not those legitimate businesses that are beneficial to the national economy and people's living conditions. Assistance should be given to these businesses when they are in difficulty to develop them."
In summary, in the first two or three years after the establishment of the People's Republic of China, the Central government's understanding of this issue was quite clear, emphasizing the irreplaceable role of private economy in the development of the national economy, emphasizing the unification and utility of the national bourgeoisie, and criticizing the viewpoint that treated the national bourgeoisie as a main object of struggle. This different understanding of the main contradiction problem reflects the development and change of the party's understanding of these issues at the time, as well as some uncertainties of this development. Later practice showed that the result of these changes reverted to the understanding of the Second Plenary Session of the Seventh Congress. The understanding of the main contradiction after the founding of New China reflected both the grasp of China's situation with the new Democratic theory and the classical writers' definitions of the traditional socialist society.
In actuality, after the founding of the People's Republic of China, it was necessary to rely on the national bourgeoisie and other private economies to restore and develop the economy due to the Communist Party becoming the ruling party nationwide and having the political prerequisite for economic construction at the core of its work. At the same, the reality of a severely lagging economy made the task of restoring and developing production extremely urgent. In such a special transitional period with multiple tasks and contradictions, the main contradictions should reflect both the reality of an unfinished New Democratic Revolution and the pressing economic tasks. The primary contradictions of this period thus had a dual nature, intersecting and transitional. This complex situation presented difficulties for correctly understanding the main contradictions in society at the time and the center tasks of the party, but also contained great opportunities for the Sinicization of Marxism.
Under the sway of traditional socialist notions, together with constraints imposed by USSR's understanding of main social contradiction during the transition period, when identifying the main social conflict of that time, people were still accustomed to approaching from the standpoint of class struggle, assuming that the prime contradiction in any class struggle is the main contradiction in social conflict. As such, in terms of acknowledging the main conflict and the party's central tasks, contradictions between the working class and the bourgeoisie, socialism and capitalism, were still seen as the main conflict within the New Democracy society. However, it wasn't integrated with the party's guideline of focusing on economic development, nor was it linked to the unfulfilled democracy revolution tasks (such as land reform) proposed by the party then. 
The existence of these factors led to several issues. First, the estimated duration of the New Democratic society appeared variable and tended to grow increasingly shorter, which contradicted the initial projection of a longer-term New Democracy society building. Second, the understanding of future socialist society characteristics increasingly resembled the features of USSR's model, both 'big' and 'pure'. Third, there was a growing lack of awareness regarding the importance of utilizing capitalism for economic development in the context of significantly backward productive forces. Under such perception, during this period, when 'leftist' mistakes arose in response to the bourgeoisie and individual economy both within and outside the party, efforts exerted by party's central authorities couldn't thoroughly suppress them. As a result, when the situation changed, eagerness to abolish the bourgeoisie and transition towards socialism would manifest in new forms. The existence of such situation would inevitably affect the implementation of the party's New Democracy blueprint and the indigenization progress of Marxism in early communist China.

Chapter Four New Considerations on the Transition to Socialism and the Approach to the Soviet Model
On the development path and steps after the founding of New China, the Party's Seventh Plenary Session held in 1949 had made clear stipulations. This is that after the victory of the revolution across the nation, one of the fundamental tasks of the party is to steadily promote two interrelated changes, namely, the transformation from an agricultural country to an industrial country, and the transition from a New Democratic society to a socialist society. As for when these two changes should begin, and what specific methods to adopt, the Central Party and Mao Zedong have put forward some conjectures after the Seventh Plenary Session. Later, with the development and change of the objective situation, new thoughts were put forward, and some new and significant development ideas were proposed.
I. Advancing the transition to socialism and its reasons.
Starting from the second half of 1952, both domestic and international situations developed in a direction favorable for China to embark on large-scale construction. Internationally, the situation of the anti-American aid Korea war has basically stabilized, and agreements have been reached on major issues in the peace talks. The war that New China was forced to fight can be expected to end soon. Domestically, large-scale land reform has been essentially completed nationwide, and other social reforms are progressing smoothly; the work of restoring the national economy has been completed ahead of schedule, and the construction of New Democracy has achieved significant results in various aspects. Originally, it was envisioned to take "three to five years for recovery", but the goal was achieved and exceeded in three years. The conditions for large-scale, planned economic construction are already in place.
At this time, another major choice was in front of the party. The Central Committee of the Party, in accordance with the idea of "three years preparation, ten years of planned economic construction", decided to implement the first five-year plan for the development of the national economy starting from 1953, to achieve the transition from an agricultural country to an industrial country. At the same time, it began to transition to socialism ahead of schedule. This is a new and significant strategic shift. It changed the original idea of first going through a period of sufficient development of New Democracy, and then transitioning to socialism after a certain economic condition was met. It was decided to transition to socialism in 1953, rather than several decades later. How did such a change come about and take effect?
1. The objective need for transition in advance
From the perspective of objective needs, the reasons for the early transition can be roughly summarized as follows:
Firstly, fundamentally speaking, this transformation is determined by the nature of the Communist Party of China and is inherent to the cause of Chinese revolution. The realization of socialism in China has been a striving goal established by the Communist Party of China since its inception. The path and methods to accomplish socialism were clearly defined by the Party in the revolutionary program during the New Democratic period: in semi-colonial and semi-feudal China, realizing socialism must be done in two steps: firstly, to complete the anti-imperialist and anti-feudal New Democratic revolution; secondly, transition from the New Democratic revolution to the Socialist revolution. As for when and in what form the revolution should transition to the socialist stage, the Party only generally pointed out that this was the inevitable trend of historical development and the necessary conditions required, and it did not, and indeed could not, make judgments and estimates about the specific timing and conditions of the transition, as this determination would need to be made in the context of the actual development of the revolution.
From the later stages of the War of Liberation, especially after the founding of New China, the central Party leadership begun to discuss this matter in more detail. The concept at the time was: after the victory of the New Democratic revolution, a New Democratic nation would be established; after 10-15 years of New Democratic economic development, with the progress of industrialization and growth of state-owned economy, industrial nationalization and agricultural collectivization would be implemented, to realize the transition from New Democracy to Socialism, and this was thought to be a "fairly long" historical process. For example, in September 1949, Liu Shaoqi, on behalf of the Communist Party of China, explained why the "Common Program" did not include China's socialist future, pointing out: "Because it will be a quite long while before we take serious socialist steps in China." During this meeting, when a representative asked Mao Zedong how long it would take to transition to socialism, he answered: probably twenty to thirty years. By 1952, as the restoration period was about to end, due to the development of the situation and the accumulation of new experiences, and new understanding of the steps of socialist reform, some significant changes occurred in the original concept. The central Party believed that the task of transitioning gradually to socialism could start now, and it was expected that it could be completed in about 15 years or a little longer. In this way, the Party put forward the general policy in the transition period and set new tasks and goals for the whole Party and people nationwide. Therefore, fundamentally speaking, the goal of striving and the ideal of pursuit have not changed, what has changed is the advancement and acceleration of the time frame.
Secondly, the outbreak of the Korean War sharply put the task of prioritizing the development of heavy industry in front of the party.
The eruption of the Korean War quickly worsened China's international environment, and national security was seriously threatened. China had no choice but to do battle on the Korean battlefield with the United States, the world's number one economic power, in a show of vastly uneven strength. The exposure of the backwardness of New China in economic strength and military equipment in the war of resisting U.S. aggression and aiding Korea shocked the party's leaders, prompting them to urgently hope to change the extremely weak state of our industrial base, especially heavy industry, and to narrow the gap with Western developed countries as soon as possible. This is one of the direct reasons for giving birth to the prioritization of the development of heavy industry to promote national industrialization.
On the eve of the founding of New China and in the early days of its establishment, the party generally believed that our economy was backward, the industrial foundation was weak, funds were scarce, and industrialization should start with the priority development of agriculture and light industry which required less investment and produced quick results, in order to accumulate funds for the development of heavy industry which required large investment and long construction period. Liu Shaoqi once envisaged this development as a "three-step strategy": the first step was to develop agriculture and light industry with the main force, and at the same time to establish necessary defense industries; the second step was to vigorously develop heavy industry after the necessary foundation had been laid; the third step was to greatly develop light industry on the basis of the already established and developed heavy industry and to mechanize agricultural production. He explained that only when agriculture is developed can it provide enough raw materials and food for industry and expand the market for industrial development; only when light industry is developed can it exchange a large number of industrial products for the raw materials and food produced by farmers and accumulate funds for the continued development of industry. The development of agriculture and light industry can quickly improve the long-term low standards of living of the people and further unite the whole people politically. Only then is it possible to concentrate the maximum amount of money and effort to build all the foundations of heavy industry and develop heavy industry. According to this kind of development thinking, the role of mixed economic structure is very prominent.
In the first three years after the establishment of the People's Republic of China, despite the recovery and considerable development of the national economy, the highly backward state of the industry did not fundamentally change. By 1952, the production of steel was only over 1.3 million tons, and the value of modern industry using machines accounted for about 28% of the total output of industry and agriculture, and so on. Mao Zedong lamented that year, "What can we produce now? We can produce tables and chairs, teapots and teacups, we can grow grain and turn it into flour, and we can make paper, but we can't produce a car, an airplane, a tank, or a tractor." The backward reality and severe international environment made the party leaders recognize that whether or not we can rapidly change the extremely weak state of China's industrial base and quickly catch up with advanced industrial countries is related to defending the national security under serious imperialist war threats, and to the future and destiny of the nation. If we proceeded with the original idea of implementing a new democratic mixed economy for ten or more years, first developing agriculture and light industry, and then developing heavy industry when capital had accumulated to a certain extent, we could realize industrialization, but this was a long road, not suitable for a backward socialist big country like China under cold war conditions.
Against such a backdrop, upon the near completion of the task of national economic recovery, the party central committee timely put the task of realizing industrialization with heavy industry at its core on the agenda. In May 1952, when putting together the first five-year plan, Li Fuchun, on behalf of the Finance and Economics Committee, proposed that the focus of economic construction should be on heavy industry to lay the foundation for industrialization; agriculture, light industry, and transportation should develop around the heavy industry. This was a significant decision to prioritize the development of heavy industry. Mao Zedong further broadly explained the origin and characteristics of this development strategy. He said, "In order to ensure the independence of the country, we must focus our construction on heavy industry to strengthen our defense capabilities and advance towards socialism." Thus, in response to the new conditions and tasks encountered after the founding of the People's Republic of China, the development strategy changed from agriculture first, followed by light industry, and then heavy industry in the new democratic system, to prioritizing heavy industry, then light industry and agriculture, with industrialization becoming the primary task for the country's next period. This became a major strategic shift for the party. This industry-centered, high-speed development, catch-up development strategy is the industrialization strategy that most of the newly independent post-development countries, especially socialist countries, around the world chose after the war. What is particularly noteworthy is that this change in development strategy must be guaranteed by a corresponding system change; in China, it means that socialism must be introduced in advance.
The biggest difference between prioritizing industrialization and prioritizing the development of agriculture and light industry is that a large amount of capital needs to be invested, creating a substantial capital shortfall, with the prioritization of heavy industry exacerbating this contradiction. At that time, the industrial base of China was even weaker than that of the Soviet Union when it implemented its first five-year plan. The scattered and backward individual economies after the land reform could hardly meet the rapidly growing needs of the city and industry for capital, food, and agricultural raw materials. Faced with this contradiction, we could neither plunder start-up capital for industrialization through overseas expansion like the early capitalist countries nor solve the massive capital required for the development of heavy industry from the scattered and backward agriculture and light industry; we could only find another way. Regardless of whether we fully understood at the time, regardless of how much each component was based on realistic considerations and based on ideological considerations, the reality was that we could only meet the huge demand for various funds and resources in the early stage of industrialization through a highly centralized government and a planned economic system, mainly through planning, not the market, and through strong administrative power for internal accumulation and resource allocation. This urgent development demand put the task of advancing the transition to socialism ahead of us.
The resurgence of industries and the initiation of numerous new projects greatly increased the demand for commodity grains and other industrial raw materials. However, the capability of dispersed and vulnerable individual farmers to expand reproduction was quite limited after land reform, far from meeting the needs of large-scale industrial construction. The fact that simple collaboration in mutual aid groups and initial cooperativization significantly increased production led the party to believe that further cooperativization could more rapidly promote the development of productive forces and meet the urgent need of industrialization for agricultural products. 
After three years of recovery, new contradictions had also appeared and accumulated in our country's socio-economic aspects. In rural areas, the main issue was considering the direction of individual economy development due to the wealth gap created after land reform. This not only relates to the stability and development of the rural areas but also sharply raises several fundamental issues concerning the party's ideology: private ownership or public ownership? Socialism or capitalism? Individual economy or collective economy? 
Thirdly, the "Three-anti" and "Five-anti" campaign and the return to addressing the main domestic conflicts at the second plenary session of the 7th Central Committee.
Mao Zedong had a principle expression about the understanding of the main contradictions within China after the founding of New China in works such as "On the Co-operative Government". From the Central Work Conference in September 1948 to the Second Plenary Session of the 7th Central Committee, this statement became clearer, that is, the contradiction between the proletariat and the bourgeoisie. But even at that time, the understanding of the main contradiction was not thorough and consistent. For example, in Mao Zedong's report at the Second Plenary Session of the 7th Central Committee, the description of the basic contradiction (i.e., the main contradiction) was inconsistent with the determined central task. Subsequent central leaders had new judgments on the main contradiction, that is, understanding had been repeated. They had criticized many times the view that the national bourgeoisie was the main target of struggle, but there was no clear consensus on this, and there was a lack of firm and consistent understanding of the main contradiction. This kind of contradiction and repetition in understanding is understandable, reflecting changes in the party's long-term goals and short-term objectives, pursuit of values and strategic considerations, considerations for restoring and developing production, and reactions to new situations in class struggle. The not very consistent and not very clear situation changed and developed due to the changes in understanding of the national bourgeoisie caused by the "Three Opposing" and "Five Opposing" campaigns.
Some changes in the understanding of the national bourgeoisie were important reasons for the Party Central Committee's decision to make an early transition to socialism. At the beginning of the founding of the New China, according to the scientific understanding of the dual nature of the national bourgeoisie, and according to the provisions of the Common Program protecting the legality and appropriate development of private enterprise, the party has always maintained the policy of unity, utilization, and transformation, but the focus is on utilization. In the process of restoring the national economy, unscrupulous capitalists were not content to obtain normal profits and strove to gain illegal high profits using illegal methods, such as bribing state cadres, tax evasion and evasion, jerry-building, stealing state property, and stealing state economic intelligence (abbreviated at the time as "Five Poisons"). Facing this serious situation, the Party Central Committee decided to carry out a "Three Opposing" campaign against corruption, waste, and bureaucracy among party and government staff, and a "Five Opposing" campaign against bribery, tax evasion and evasion, jerry-building, stealing state property, and stealing state economic intelligence among private entrepreneurs.
The huge "Three Opposing" and "Five Opposing" campaigns, while striking hard at unscrupulous capitalists, also caused strong ideological shocks among the majority of party members and cadres, triggering important changes in their understanding of the national bourgeoisie. In the process of exposing the unscrupulous capitalists' "Five Poisons" and criticizing bourgeois thoughts, some overreactions were inevitably produced among some cadres and masses. In early 1952, articles published successively in the "Study" magazine edited by the Theory Department of the Central Propaganda Department violated the Common Program and had errors in principle. These articles unilaterally denied the dual nature of the bourgeoisie at the current stage, considered that the bourgeoisie only had a decadent reactionary side without a positive one, and obliterated the bourgeoisie's status and role in the New Democracy stage. The articles required the bourgeoisie as a class to accept the ideological system of Marxism. Mao Zedong harshly criticized the errors in the articles, and the Central Propaganda Department had also reviewed these errors. On March 27, 1952, Mao Zedong wrote in a directive: "In the era of New Democracy, when the bourgeoisie and the petty bourgeoisie are allowed to exist," and "During the period when the bourgeoisie and the petty bourgeoisie are allowed to exist, not allow the bourgeoisie and the petty bourgeoisie to have their own position and thoughts, this kind of thinking is divorced from Marxism, and is a naive and ridiculous idea," and "It should be corrected." Here, Mao Zedong's understanding of the bourgeoisie and bourgeois thought is still consistent with the consistent position of the party regulated by "Common Program" and the Third Plenary Session of the Seventh Central Committee, which is different from the statement at the Second Plenary Session of the Seventh Central Committee. Or, in March Mao Zedong still emphasized the position of the "Common Program.".
However, with the proposal of the socialist industrialization mission, especially with the development of the "Three Anti" and "Five Anti" movements, when the profit-seeking side of the bourgeoisie becomes more exposed, and it sharply clashes with the values of the communists, when the anarchic impulses of the capitalist industry and commerce economy and the ever-growing contradiction between the highly centralized planned economic system required for state industrialization, the struggle between the working class and state-owned economy and bourgeoisie concerning limitations and anti-limitations is increasingly prominent. At this point, the attention of the central leadership quickly turns to this increasingly prominent contradiction, further intensifying the recognition of the negative role of the bourgeoisie and capitalist economy, and continually clarifying that the contradiction between the working class and bourgeoisie is the main contradiction during the transition period. Three months later, at the end of the movement, Mao Zedong's understanding of the bourgeoisie had significantly changed. On June 6, 1952, he proposed in a directive: "After overthrowing the landlord class and the bureaucratic bourgeoisie, the main contradiction within China is the contradiction between the working class and the national bourgeoisie, so the national bourgeoisie should not be called the middle class anymore." This description of the main contradiction essentially goes back to the consistent description from the Central Political Bureau meeting in September 1948 up until the second plenary session of the seventh. Denying that the national bourgeoisie is the middle class ended the party's back-and-forth on this basic issue. Another three months passed, and Mao Zedong changed the idea of gradually transitioning from New Democracy to socialism, and proposed the issue of beginning the transition to socialism.
Later history showed that, at the start of large-scale economic construction, even though the negative elements of the private capitalist economy and the contradictions between it and state industrialization supported by the state-owned economy and centralized planning, objectively required the transformation of the private economy, reducing its range of activities, the degree and speed of this transformation could have been more cautious. The changes in understanding the national bourgeoisie through the "Three Anti" and "Five Anti" movements weakened the important content rich in Chinese characteristics in the theory of New Democracy, taking a big step toward the Soviet model of the Stalin era.
Fourthly, with the state beginning planned economic construction, it is necessary to concentrate limited resources and funds on key construction projects, while the private capitalist economy instinctively demands the expansion of free production and free trade to develop itself, instinctively rejecting planned economic management. If the contradiction between planned management and free development wasn't prominent in the recovery period, then, after the complete start of the first Five-Year Plan construction, this contradiction became prominent. And the only way to solve this contradiction is to speed up the transformation of the private economy, increase the intensity of the transformation, and adapt it to the planned economy.
Fifth, during the "First Five-Year" period, China received a large amount of aid from socialist countries such as the Soviet Union. The tangible equipment and funds were all marked with the economic systems of the planned economy and public ownership, which could only be connected with our country's public economy and economic system. This not only deepened the dependence of the private economy on the state-owned economy, but also highlighted the necessity of the socialist transformation of the private economy.
2. Favorable Conditions for Early Transition
The early transition to socialism not only has actual objective needs but also had certain favorable conditions at the time.
Firstly, at that time, our country already had a relatively strong and rapidly developing socialist state-owned economy, which was not only an important reliance for the socialist transformation of the entire national economy but also an important starting point for the transformation. After three years of recovery, the proportion of public and private economies in the national economy has fundamentally changed. For example, in the total industrial output value across the country (not inclusive of handicraft industries), the state-owned industry rose from 34.2% in 1949 to 52.8% in 1952, cooperative operations and public-private partnership industries accounted for 82%, and private industry decreased from 63.3% to 39%. At that time, most state-owned industries had relatively advanced technologies, high labor productivity, strong sense of ownership among employees in state-owned enterprises, stable life, various rights and benefits, and high enthusiasm for work. In summary, the socialist economy demonstrated its superiority over other economic components. Such changes indicated that the dominance of state-owned economy of socialist nature had greatly strengthened in the entire national economy, not only controlling important industries and production sectors related to national planning and people's livelihood, but also surpassing private industries in modern industry, becoming the main material basis for China's gradual transition to socialism. The realization of industrialization in China can only rely mainly on the development of socialist state-owned economy.
Secondly, the Party had already carried out many practices of utilizing and restricting private industry and commerce, accumulating much experience, which is actually the first steps of the socialist transformation of the capitalist economy. During the national economic recovery period, in the process of restricting and counter-restricting the capitalist economy, and in the process of reasonably adjusting industry and commerce, the state created a series of state capitalist forms, ranging from low to high levels, such as processing orders, distribution and sales, unified purchase and sales, public-private partnerships, etc. These forms are not only utilization and restriction of capitalist industry and commerce but also concrete steps to deepen their connection with the socialist state-owned economy and the planned economy, leading to varying degrees of changes in their production relationships, and to some extent, the beginning of their preliminary socialist transformation, although this was not fully realized at the beginning. Prior to this, the Party's understanding of measures to realize socialist transformation was that after a 'considerable' period, on the basis of industrial development and the growth of the state-owned economy, 'serious socialist steps' were taken to implement the nationalization of capitalist industry and commerce and the collectivization of individual agriculture in one move. Or rather, when the conditions were met, the nationalization would be declared at some future moment and the capitalist private system would be eliminated in one fell swoop. Beginning in 1952, through research and summarizing experiences, the Central Party recognized that the continued expansion and improvement of various forms of state capitalism could be the specific path for the gradual socialist transformation of capitalist industry and commerce. This understanding became another basic factor for the Party to believe that at this time it could put forward the general line of gradual transition to socialism.
Thirdly, after the basic completion of land reform across the country, the simple cooperation of agricultural mutual aid movement was widely carried out in rural areas, initially showing the superiority of organizing individual farmers to increase agricultural production, and the Party also accumulated a lot of experience in carrying out agricultural mutual aid cooperation in this process. At that time, these mutual aid cooperation forms were considered not only as effective ways to help poor farmers overcome difficulties and increase production, but also as appropriate ways to prevent spontaneous capitalist trends in rural areas and guide agriculture towards socialist development. In the debate about the collectivization of Shanxi, the Party also formed a new understanding, that is, China's industrialization and agricultural mechanization will be a long process, and agricultural collectivization should not wait for industrialization and mechanization. Under the condition of no large-scale machinery, small-scale agricultural mutual aid organizations can increase production mainly through unified operations and cooperation. This is also a basic factor for the Party believing that it can put forward the general line of gradual transition to socialism.
Fourthly, the reason why the Party Central Committee decided to prioritize the development of heavy industry and transition to socialism in advance, not only due to ideological reasons, but also the influence of the international environment should not be overlooked. The People's Republic of China was born in an international environment where the capitalist and socialist camps were sharply confronting each other. Therefore, after the establishment of the People's Republic of China, we chose a "one-sided" diplomatic policy and became a member of the socialist camp. Imperialist countries led by the United States threatened military aggression against our country, strictly blocked our economy, and constantly stirred up anti-China and anti-communist waves. The Soviet Union and other people's democratic countries, on the other hand, gave positive aid and support to China. At that time, the socialist camp was full of upward development vitality, showing its superiority over capitalism. Since the birth of the first socialist country, through the comparison of the capitalist economic crisis in the 1920s and 1930s and the post-war economic recovery, the socialist development model based on the public ownership and planned economy had a great appeal for backward countries to realize the catch-up strategy in a short term.
3. The Proposal of the General Line during the Transition Period
With the above practice and understanding background, under the interaction of various factors, by the second half of 1952, the Party Central Committee had started to consider how China could gradually transition to socialism. On September 24, 1952, when the "Three-Anti" and "Five-Anti" campaign was about to end, Mao Zedong raised the issue of transitioning to socialism at a meeting of the Central Secretariat. He said: We are now starting to use 10 to 15 years to basically complete the transition to socialism, not starting the transition after 10 years or later. The second plenum of the Seventh Central Committee proposed restrictions and anti-restrictions, now this content is richer. In November, he said at a central meeting that we should eliminate the bourgeoisie and the bourgeois industry and commerce; but it has to be phased, one is to eliminate, one is to support for a bit. Afterwards, he said during his inspection in Hubei: What is the transition period? The steps of the transition period are to move towards socialism. This is like crossing a bridge, taking one step is considered a transition of one year, two steps are two years, three steps are three years, and it will be completed in ten to fifteen years. Compared with the party's initial idea of transitioning to socialism at the beginning of the new China, Mao Zedong's new idea has seen considerable changes.
In October 1952, Liu Shaoqi led a delegation of the Communist Party of China (CPC) to attend the 19th National Congress of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union. During this period, under the commission of Mao Zedong, he wrote a letter to Stalin concerning the CPC Central Committee's ideas of socialist transformation of agriculture, handicraft industry, and capitalist industry and commerce, and a gradual transition to socialism within 10 to 15 years. Stalin affirmed this concept, stating, "after we have gained power, we should adopt a gradual transition to socialism. Your attitude towards the Chinese bourgeois is correct."
After receiving Stalin's affirmation, the Party Central Committee further strengthened its new concept of transitioning to socialism. In April of 1953, Mao Zedong wrote in an outline that the socialist transformation (agriculture, handicraft industry, capitalist industry and commerce) and national industrialization should be fundamentally completed within ten to fifteen years or even longer. In the middle of June, Mao Zedong officially proposed the Party's overall line and mission during the transitional period, which was to fundamentally complete national industrialization and the socialist transformation of agriculture, handicraft industry, and capitalist industry and commerce within ten to fifteen years or longer. This overall line is the beacon that illuminates all of our work. In August, while reviewing a document, Mao Zedong for the first time gave a rather complete written description of the overall line during the transition period: "From the establishment of the People's Republic of China to the basic completion of socialist transformation, it is a transitional period. The Party's overall line and overall task in this transitional period are to fundamentally realize national industrialization and the socialist transformation of agriculture, handicraft industry, and capitalist industry and commerce over a rather prolonged period."
To meet the needs of studying and propagating the overall line, in December 1953, the CPC Central Committee approved the "Outline for Learning and Propagating the Overall Line of the Party in the Transitional Period - Striving to Mobilize all Forces to build our Country into a Great Socialist Country" (hereafter referred to as the "Propaganda Outline") written by the Central Propaganda Department and revised by Mao Zedong. The Propaganda Outline finally determined the complete statement of the overall line during the transitional period: "From the establishment of the People's Republic of China to the basic completion of socialist transformation, it is a transitional period. The Party's overall line and overall task in this transitional period are to gradually realize the socialist industrialization of the country, and gradually realize the socialist transformation of the country's agriculture, handicraft industry, and capitalist industry and commerce. This overall line is the beacon that illuminates all of our work. Any work that deviates from it is bound to commit errors of 'Rightist' or 'Leftist'."
The general line of the Party in the transition period, starting from the establishment of New China as the starting point of the transition period, is a major development and transformation of the central government's theory on the nature of revolution, the nature of society, the theory of New Democracy society, and the theory of transition to socialism since the Second Plenary Session of the Seventh Central Committee. Central leaders such as Mao Zedong sensed this significant change and tried to explain it. He added a paragraph of explanation in the study and publicity outline: "What we say signifies the transformation of the nature of the revolution, the basic end of the stage of the New Democratic Revolution and the beginning of the socialist revolution stage is the transformation of power, is the extinction of the Kuomintang's counter-revolutionary regime and the establishment of the People's Republic of China, not that such a great task as socialist transformation can be immediately carried out in all aspects of the country after the establishment of the People's Republic.” "At that time, the main contradiction in the countryside was the contradiction between feudalism and democracy, not the contradiction between capitalism and socialism, so it took two to three years to carry out land reform in the countryside. At that time, we carried out democratic land reform in the countryside on the one hand, and on the other hand, we immediately started to take over bureaucratic capitalist enterprises in cities to make them socialist enterprises”; "We have started to establish socialist state-owned and cooperative commerce on a national scale, and have implemented state capitalist measures for private capitalist enterprises in the past few years. All these show the intricate image of the first few years of our country's transition period.” The "intricate image" Mao Zedong used here probably also wanted to explain the change in understanding of the main contradiction issue in the first three years after the establishment of New China.
Zhou Enlai explained this problem from the internal connection of the two social forms. He explicitly pointed out at the enlarged Standing Committee of the National Political Consultative Conference in September 1953: "Concentratively speaking, the period of New Democracy construction in our country is the period of gradual transition to socialism, which is also the period when the socialist economic sector gradually increases its weight in the national economy." This means that our country's New Democratic society belongs to the socialist system and is a transitional society gradually transitioning to a socialist society. This also better explains why the general line of the transitional period starts from the establishment of New China.
II. Basic Features of the General Line in the Transition Period
1. "One Transformation and Three Reforms" and their Emphasis
The basic characteristics of the overall program during the transitional period have two aspects: one is anticipation, and the other is simultaneity. The so-called anticipation refers to the changes made in the original idea of going through a relatively long period of new democratic construction, and waiting until the productive forces have developed considerably before starting the transition to socialism. The plan was proposed to start the transition since 1953, greatly shortening the period of new democratic construction. The so-called simultaneity refers to "One Transformation and Three Reforms" or "One Main Body and Two Wings". In this case, the main body is the gradual realization of socialist industrialization, and the "two wings" are the gradual socialist transformation of agriculture, handicrafts, and capitalist industry and commerce. The prominent feature of this overall program is that national industrialization and socialist transformation proceed simultaneously. In other words, the development of productive forces and the transformation of production relations take place at the same time, and the productive materials private ownership is gradually reformed while prioritizing the development of heavy industry to achieve industrialization.
In terms of the task of gradually realizing socialist industrialization, the overall program requires that the socialist industry be fully developed, and the existing non-socialist industries be transformed into socialist industries, so that the socialist industry becomes the leading force playing a decisive role in the development of the national economy. As for the task of gradually implementing socialist transformation for agriculture, handicraft industry, and capitalist industry and commerce, the overall program stipulates the need to expand the public ownership of socialism and the collective ownership of cooperative members. Transform the private ownership based on individual labor of farmers and handicraft workers into the collective ownership of cooperative members; transform the capitalist private ownership based on exploiting the surplus labor of the working class into public ownership for all.
The general line during the transition period has developed Marxist classic authors' theory of transitioning to socialism. In the relevant theories of Marx and Engels, the transition from capitalism to socialism or communism should be a transition from developed capitalist countries to socialism or communism. In these countries, the high development of productive forces is inherent. Therefore, in their transition period theory, they did not deliberately emphasize the issues of realizing industrialization and other developmental aspects, instead, they mainly emphasized the revolutionary changes of the economic base and the superstructure. The socialist practice in the 20th century exceeded the expectations of Marx and Engels and mostly occurred in underdeveloped countries. This reality promoted the development of Marxist transition period theory. During the Soviet Union's practice of transitioning to socialism, due to the reality of their economic and cultural backwardness, Lenin and Stalin emphasized state industrialization in their standards for building socialism, in addition to eliminating exploitation and realizing industrial nationalization and agricultural cooperation. Socialist countries that emerged after the Second World War, due to their relatively underdeveloped level of productive forces, also talk about transitioning to socialism in conjunction with industrialization. In fact, this should be considered as a development of classic Marxist theory under contemporary conditions, or rather, it is an important product of the modernization of Marxism.
When the Central Committee proposed the general line during the transition period, it drew on the experience of the Soviet Union and regarded industrialization as the main task of transitioning to socialism, and proposed to promote China's development towards socialism from the two aspects of productive forces and relations of production. Mao Zedong's comment succinctly summarized the essence and characteristics of this general line, which is: "combining the social system aspect of the revolution from private ownership to public ownership" with "the technical aspect of the revolution from handicrafts to large-scale modern machine production." This differs from Marx's transition theory and is an improvement to classic Marxist theory.
However, it should also be noted that the proposal of the general line during the transition period caused considerable changes to the path, method, time, specific policies, etc., originally envisioned by the Central Committee in transitioning from new democracy to socialism. In connection with the reducing of the New Democracy period, Mao Zedong changed his perception of the social nature of New Democracy before and after the founding of New China, changed the provisions of the Common Program regarding the nature of New China, and changed his understanding of the starting point of the transition. The general line during the transition period changed the understanding and provision of our country's transition period as a "transition from a new democratic society to a socialist society" and was replaced by the argument "from capitalism to socialism." Obviously, the social form before the founding of New China is not a "capitalist" society, but a semi-colonial semi-feudal society, which is the starting point of the whole new democratic revolution and the theory of new democratic society. If it is "capitalist," China's revolution would not be of a new democratic nature. This judgement contradicts the party's understanding during the democratic revolution period in all aspects, from the "Theory of New Democracy" to the 7th Plenary Session of the 2nd Central Committee. When proposing the general line, Mao Zedong also criticized three "erroneous views" on establishing a new democratic social order, transitioning from new democracy to socialism, and protecting private property. As for the completion of the transition period, it was envisioned at the time to be three five-year plans, plus three years of national economic recovery, a total of 18 years. Although this was shorter than before, if it could be implemented in practice, the problem would not be too significant. This reflected that Mao Zedong was still relatively cautious in his guiding ideology at that time.
Although the general line distinguishes between the "main body" and the "two wings", which means to develop productive forces and achieve the transformation of production relations, and emphasizes that the main body is industrialization, in actual implementation and understanding, in the relation between productive forces and production relations, it emphasizes the transformation of production relations, highlights the reaction of superstructure to production relations, and does not regard the development of productive forces as a decisive factor for achieving public-owned system. Mao Zedong said in his two talks about agricultural mutual aid and cooperation in October 1953, "The general line, we can say, is to solve the problem of property rights," "The general line is to gradually change production relations," "Private ownership should gradually become illegal." Later he even proposed: "Our aim is to make capitalism extinct, to make it extinct on earth." In September 1953, Zhou Enlai said at the 49th standing committee of the first National Political Consultative Conference, "What is socialism? The most basic form of socialism is the completion of socialist transformation, which means the abolition of private capitalist ownership of means of production, the return of ownership to the state, and the collectivization of agriculture and handicraft industries." In the CPC Central Propaganda Department's outline of study and propagation of the Party's general line during the transition period, it says, "The practicality of the Party's general line during the transition period is to make the socialist ownership of means of production the only economic foundation of our country and society." That is to say, the emphasis is more on the relations between production forces and production relations. It is this point that has made a significant distinction between the general line of transition period and the idea of transitioning from New Democracy to socialism.
Regarding the pace of agricultural development, the previous plan of first realizing industrialization and then realizing collectivization has been changed. The original plan was to concentrate efforts on realizing national industrialization first and then implement collectivization when industry could provide a large amount of agricultural machinery. However, now it is believed that without mechanization, cooperation could still be achieved. This is what Mao Zedong said, "We must first have a cooperative system, and then large machinery can be used."
On the principles and policies towards the capitalist industry and commerce, the original idea was to first utilize and limit them, and to make use of their benefits to national economy and people's livelihood. Once the conditions are ripe, they would be nationalized. However, the new proposal advocates the simultaneous use and limitation of the capitalist economy, and aims to reform it through various forms of state capitalism, and gradually lead it on to the socialist track, and so on.
These changes reflected in the overall route of the transitional period show that the party's understanding gradually deepens as practice develops. Originally, it was thought that after the 10 to 15 years of the New Democratic Construction period and sufficiently economic and physical foundations, we could calmly enter a socialist society. Now it seems that from the founding of New China, socialist factors have been continuously increasing and will undoubtedly far exceed the development of private enterprises and industry and increasingly strengthen their controlling power. This shows that the current period of New Democratic construction can also be referred to as a transitional period from New Democracy to socialism, that is, a period when the proportion of socialist components in the national economy gradually increases. It should also be seen that, whilst these changes do not alter the party's strategic goals and major tasks, they have significant impacts on future developments in understanding the nature of society, the main contradictions in society, the understanding of non-public economies, and the issues such as transitioning to socialism. These changes are both the development of Marxist classical theory that is in compliance with changes in the situation, the expansion of the existing experience in China according to current needs, and the aspect of beginning to emulate the Soviet model, abandoning some of the conceptions in the original theory of New Democratic society that are more suited to China's national conditions.
2. "Today's USSR is our tomorrow"
The overall route of the transitional period is based directly on Lenin's transitional period doctrine, and the proposal of the overall route signifies that we have to a large extent accepted the Soviet model. The USSR, as the world's first socialist country, its experience in socialist construction has direct reference value for China. As early as around the founding of New China, the Party Central Committee has proposed several times to take the USSR as a model for learning. In June 1949, Mao Zedong stated in "On the People's Democratic Dictatorship" that "The Communist Party of the Soviet Union is our best teacher, we must learn from them", and we must "learn respectfully and honestly". On September 3, 1949, Liu Shaoqi called on a party's high-ranking cadre meeting, "We must learn from the USSR, in politics, organization, thinking, technique, in law, finance, economy, culture, education etc, we must all learn from the USSR." But at the beginning of the founding of New China, faced with tasks such as completely restoring economy, especially land reforms and many other democratic revolutionary missions, the party emphasized that "today's main objects of struggle are imperialism, feudalism and its running dog remnants of the Kuomintang reactionaries, not the national bourgeoisie"; "Some people think that we can prematurely eliminate capitalism and implement socialism, this kind of thought is wrong, it does not suit our country's situation";  emphasizing the implementation of the "Common Program", fully carrying out New Democratic construction, among other focuses. In other words, more emphasis is placed on implementing the New Democratic founding program, not transitioning to socialism. Although it is influenced by Lenin's "New Economic Policy", it is more about the New Democratic founding theory of the Chinese Communist Party that has been explored and created in the long-term New Democratic revolution with Chinese characteristics. In such a background, learning from the USSR's experience and model is not particularly prominent.
In the process of brewing, proposing, and implementing the general roadmap for the transition period, under the leadership of the Central Party Committee, there arose a climax of studying the Soviet Union's socialist experiences. The Central Party Committee proposed the content of learning to the whole party more specifically, considering it a vital part and condition of executing the general roadmap. 
In February 1953, Mao Zedong issued a call during the fourth session of the first National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference, "We should arouse a climax of learning from the Soviet Union nationwide to build our country." He emphasized that spectacular work was needed for the forthcoming five-year plan, but experiences were lacking, hence the need to learn from the advanced experiences of the Soviet Union. "We are now learning from the Soviet Union, extensively studying their advanced experiences in various sectors, inviting their advisors, and sending our students to study abroad." We should adopt a sincere attitude towards this issue, learn all their strengths, not only the ideas of Marxism-Leninism but also their advanced science and technology, everything that could be of use, should be humbly learned. On February 14, 1953, Liu Shaoqi pointed out in a speech, "We must strive to learn from the Soviet Union vigorously and regard the sincere learning and application of the Soviet Union's advanced experiences as one of the conditions for promoting our country's construction." The same day, the People's Daily editorial said, "In order to realize industrialization in our country, the most important thing that lies ahead of us is to learn from the Soviet Union," "We should rapidly launch a systematic movement to learn from the Soviet Union nationwide." In December 1953, the Central Propaganda Department pointed out in the propaganda outline of the general line for the transition period, "The path that the Soviet Union has taken in the past is the model we should learn from today." On September 15, 1954, Liu Shaoqi said in the "Report on the Draft Constitution of the People's Republic of China", "The path we are taking is the one taken by the Soviet Union, which is beyond doubt for us. The road of the Soviet Union is the path that mankind must take according to the law of historical development. It is impossible to avoid this path." For a time, "The Soviet Union's today is our tomorrow," became a well-known slogan.
During the brewing and implementing of the general roadmap, in April 1953, the Central Party Committee issued the "Directive on the Theoretical Education of Cadres in 1953-1954." The directive pointed out, "To meet the needs of the entire party entering the period of economic construction, it is now stipulated that the advanced and intermediate groups of the entire party's cadre theoretical study shall be studying Chapter 9 to 12 of "History of the CPSU (B)" and a part of Lenin and Stalin's works on socialist economic construction from July 1953 to December 1954." This study plan requires all major party cadres to systematically understand the fundamental laws of the Soviet Union's realization of national industrialization, agricultural cooperation, and the completion of socialist construction, to correctly use the Soviet Union's experiences based on China's specific conditions during China's economic construction." During the study of "History of the CPSU (B)", the directive requires the advanced group to read 26 works by Lenin, Stalin, Khrushchev, Molotov, Malenkov, etc., chapter by chapter. There are Lenin's "Economics and Politics in the Era of the Proletarian Dictatorship", "On the United Economic Plan", "On Food Taxes", "On Cooperatives", Stalin's "On the Economic Situation of the Soviet Union and the Party's Policy", "On Some Issues of Soviet Land Policy", "Victorious Mindset", "Summary of the First Five-Year Plan" and so forth. These classic works that established the theoretical foundation of the Soviet model have exerted a profound and long-lasting impact on China's socialist construction.
For example, emphasizing the importance of production relations over productive forces in socialist transformation is a characteristic feature of the Stalinist model. When Stalin announced the completion of socialism in 1936, his primary basis was not a standard of productive forces or the socialization of production, but the "rise of social systems and the extinction of capital" in production relations, using the collective ownership of production materials instead of the prominence of socialized production. He stated, "The most important thing about building socialism is that capitalism has been completely expelled from our industrial sector and the socialist production system now dominates our industry exclusively." In agriculture, "the rich peasants have also been eliminated", forming "an all-inclusive collective farm and state farm system", with "individual small farmer economy only occupying a small position". In summary, "the phenomenon of people exploiting people has been eradicated and eliminated, and the socialist ownership of tools and production materials has been established as an unshakable foundation of Soviet society." Although Stalin also mentioned the achievements of Soviet agriculture and industry production at the time in terms of productive forces, he did not consciously relate socialism to a certain level of productive forces, which is still a considerable distance from what Marx and Lenin envisioned. In relation to our country's three major transformations, the influence of the Stalinist model is very clear.
The whole party, according to the central requirements, systematically understanding the experiences of the Soviet Union in building socialism and referencing important speeches by central leaders including Mao Zedong, greatly increased the consciousness of implementing the general policy. This learning movement deepened the party's understanding of the significance, immense difficulty, and complexity of socialist industrialization; the leading role of the working class in the alliance between workers and peasants; the significance of strengthening party leadership; and increased understanding of the difficulties that will be encountered in the process of industrialization, such as the insufficiency of industrial and agricultural products. It clarified the necessity and significance of a unified purchase and sales system and obedience to the state plan. The learning movement had a huge and profound impact on unifying thinking, implementing the general policy, implementing the first five-year plan and the future socialist construction of our country, and establishing and popularizing the concept of "what is socialism" throughout the party and the country.
Our country has realized the transition from New Democracy to Socialism. From the perspective of model selection, if it's said that during the first three years after the founding of the People's Republic of China, the mixed economic model of New Democracy was close to Lenin's "New Economic Policy" in his later years, then since 1953 when the general line for the transition period was proposed, the mixed economy of New Democracy gradually turned into a single planned economy, it was basically based on the Stalinist model as the foundation and standard. Undertaking socialism in a large Eastern nation like ours, under the conditions of that time, choosing the Soviet model was both inevitable and necessary in general, and practice has proven it successful. However, this inevitably brought about some side effects. During the implementation of the general line for the transition period, the large-scale learning of the theory and practice of Soviet industrialization and collectivization by the entire Communist Party has led people to develop the idea that socialism equals to the Soviet model, and even to think that in the Cold War environment of opposition between socialist and capitalist camps, there was no other road to socialism but the Soviet model. This sort of one-sided understanding had a significant impact on the doctrinaire tendencies that arose in practice and was one of the important reasons for the rapid transition to socialism, the pursuit of advanced public ownership, and the weakening of the commodity economy and market forces at that time. The emergence of this situation was inevitable under the historical conditions of the time or it could be said that it was a phase that could not be bypassed in the process of the sinicization of Marxism. Later on, Mao Zedong pointed it out, "For the first eight years, we copied from foreign experience," "Because we didn't know, we had no experience, and we just brought them in," "Almost everything was copied from the Soviet Union, we had little creativity of our own," "There was a lack of creativity, a lack of independent capability." It can be said that during the transition to socialism and the beginning of socialist construction, our Party's exploration of the socialist road started with the imitation of the Soviet model. In 1956, when Mao Zedong was talking to foreign Communist Party delegations, he said, "The direction is one, the content is one, it's the content of socialism, the form of the nation." He did not realize that even the "content of socialism" is not only the Soviet model; national characteristics should not only be reflected in the "form", but also in the "content".
However, overall, since 1953, the Party has learned from the experience of Soviet socialist construction, and took the simultaneous promotion of socialist industrialization and socialist transformation as its principle. This has theoretically and practically solved the difficult task of gradually transitioning to socialism in a country like China, which accounts for nearly a quarter of the world's Population and is culturally and economically backward, which also developed Marxism on a series of important theoretical and practical issues. Therefore, China also entered a new period of planned economic construction and comprehensive implementation of socialist transformation. 
III. Innovation of Marxism in the process of transition to socialism
In China, the process of socialist transformation in agriculture, handicraft industry, and capitalist industry and commerce is the gradual transition from New Democracy to socialism. In the process of brewing and implementing the general line of the transition period, the Party's innovation on the Soviet model plays a crucial role in solving the form of socialist transformation comparatively prudently. This specific transition form is influenced by the traditional socialist model and also characterized by its local and different from the Soviet model, formed based on China's actual situation.
1. Gradually leading individual agriculture and handicraft industry onto the collective road by mutual aid and cooperation.
An essential aspect of the overall line of the transition period is to lead individual workers in agriculture and handicraft into collectivization. According to the basic principles of Marxist about agricultural cooperation, considering the nature of individual ownership of peasants and handicraftsmen, they cannot be forcibly expropriated after the working class takes over the state power, but can only go through cooperation, "lead their private production and possession into cooperative production and possession by demonstration and providing social assistance". After the victory of the October Revolution, Lenin proposed a cooperative plan to transform agriculture with socialist principles and transform the individual ownership of peasants into a cooperative of collective ownership of the working masses in "On Cooperation". He believed that the cooperative organization is the best form to combine individual interests with national interests under the premise that the individual interests of peasants are subordinate to national interests. After Lenin's death, under Stalin's leadership, the Soviet people began the process of agricultural collectivization on the basis of affirming Lenin's cooperative plan. Soon after the start of agricultural collectivization, Stalin proposed the establishment of collective farms, emphasizing the acceleration of collective farm construction. Then, the full-scale collectivization movement quickly began. As the speed of collectivization accelerated, the Central Committee of the CPSU(B) determined that the agricultural labor combination of public ownership of land use rights and means of production is the main form of collective farms, and regulated the policy towards rich peasants from restriction to elimination. During the full-scale collectivization movement, phenomena such as violating the principle of voluntariness and forcing peasants to join collective farms by administrative orders appeared, which seriously damaged agricultural productivity. Although the collective agriculture in the Soviet Union provided a certain extent of food and raw material guarantees for industrialization, it seriously damaged the alliance between workers and peasants and caused long-term stagnation in agriculture. The Marxist theory about agricultural cooperation and the practice of Soviet agricultural collectivization have a significant impact on the socialist transformation of agriculture and handicraft in China.
In rural areas of our country, mutual aid cooperation is the initial form of collectivization of agriculture. Mutual aid cooperation in rural China originated from the economic construction practices in revolutionary bases, with a long history. Even during the revolutionary war era, Mao Zedong and others successfully led mutual aid cooperation in agriculture, handicraft industry, and other areas in the bases, accumulating preliminary practical experience in a certain range. To organize scattered individual agriculture and handicraft industry gradually, and implement mutual aid cooperation, has become a consistent idea of the party. On the eve of the founding of New China, Mao Zedong pointed out at the second plenary session of the seventh congress of the party that "Without the cooperative economy, we can not lead individual economy of laboring people to gradually move towards collectivization, nor could we develop from a new democratic society to a future socialist society, nor could we consolidate the leadership power of the proletariat in the state power." In the spring of 1951, when there were differences of opinions within the party regarding whether the mutual cooperation in the old liberated areas should be immediately elevated from mutual aid groups to cooperatives, Mao Zedong explicitly supported the opinion of the Shanxi Provincial Committee. In September 1951, the "Resolution of the CPC Central Committee on the Development of Agricultural Production Mutual Aid Cooperation" confirmed that: on the basis of temporary, seasonal mutual aid groups and perennial mutual aid groups, to develop primary agricultural production cooperatives with land as shares, and providing a gradual transition to advanced agricultural production cooperatives with public ownership of land, to achieve socialism in agriculture. Thus, through the transition from temporary mutual aid groups and perennial mutual aid groups to primary cooperatives and advanced cooperatives, the transitional forms of the collectivization of individual agriculture have been essentially resolved in the practice of economic recovery.
After the general line for the transition period was put forward, based on his long-term leadership experience in agricultural mutual aid cooperation, Mao Zedong further proposed that agricultural mutual aid cooperation must be gradually completed through three forms from low to high levels. That is, to call on farmers to organize agricultural production mutual aid groups consisting of a few or a dozen households with some socialist sprouts; on the basis of mutual aid groups, to organize small-sized primary agricultural production cooperatives with semi-socialist characteristics, characterized by land shares and unified management; on the basis of primary cooperatives, to organize large-scale advanced agricultural production cooperatives with fully socialist characteristics. Mao Zedong believed that adopting a step-by-step approach from low to high levels has three benefits: it can gradually change farmers' lifestyles so that they don't feel as though the change has arrived suddenly; it can avoid crop reduction in a period of time; it can train cadres. Mao Zedong also emphasized that agricultural mutual aid cooperation must adhere to the principles of typical demonstration, voluntary mutual benefit, active leadership, and steady progress.
In December 1953, the CPC Central Committee, in accordance with Mao Zedong's talks about agricultural cooperativization, passed the "Resolution on the Development of Agricultural Production Cooperatives", proposing that the socialist transformation of agriculture should go through three steps of mutual aid groups, primary cooperatives, and advanced cooperatives, and pointed out that "this development path of cooperatives from having socialist sprouts to having more socialist factors to being fully socialist, is the path pointed out by our party for the gradual realization of socialist transformation of agriculture." According to the understanding at that time, adopting the form of agricultural mutual aid cooperation is not only an effective form to help farmers overcome difficulties and increase production, but also an appropriate form to avoid polarization and develop towards socialism.
After the "First Five-Year" plan began in full, in order to resolve the outstanding contradiction between the rapid expansion of construction scale and the tight supply and demand of food, our country also made a major decision, that is, at the end of 1953, it began to implement a unified purchase and sale policy for agricultural products such as food and cotton. The policies of unified purchase and sale and mutual aid movement are intertwined, serving as two strategic measures for the socialist transformation of the small rural economy. Fundamentally, they replace and eliminate the position of private wholesalers in important materials such as food, cotton, and oilseeds, weakening the connection between farmers and the market, strengthening the relationship between the state-owned economy and farmers, and further encouraging the majority of farmers to take the path of cooperative transformation. This also triggered the socialist transformation of capitalist industry and commerce. By the end of 1956, the whole country achieved agricultural cooperation in advance, and the socialist transformation of rural means of production was essentially completed.
In general, the goal model of collective agriculture was still the comprehensive collectivization model of the Soviet Union, with a gradual transition to socialism through cooperation and collectivization. Because of the exaggerated belief in the role of production relations, it was assumed that the increased level of public ownership would always promote the development of productivity, overcome the small private mentality of farmers, resolve the polarization believed to be present in rural areas at the time, and emphasize collective operation strengths while overlooking the vitality and enthusiasm of individual or family operations, even perceiving them as a spontaneous trend towards capitalism. However, the efforts of our party to explore specific approaches in accordance with China's conditions should not be overlooked. Thanks to the party and Mao Zedong's mastery of rural conditions and rich experience in long-term mutual aid practice, unique paths different from the Soviet Union's full collectivization were created in the socialist transformation of agriculture: principles like voluntary mutual benefit, typical demonstrations, and national assistance were followed, temporary mutual aid groups and perennial mutual aid groups were created leading to semi-socialist primary societies, then to socialist advanced societies; for the rich peasant economy, practices such as confiscation and abolition of rich peasants were not pursued, instead, policies from restriction to gradual elimination were adopted, and so on. Of course, these practices reveal different ways to transition to socialism, and at this time, the party's comprehension of socialism essentially fit within the framework of the Stalin-era Soviet model. Therefore, there are implicit contradictions in the success of agricultural cooperativization, leading to various twists and turns in subsequent agricultural and rural development.
The socialist transformation of individual handicrafts was one of the three major transformation tasks proposed during the transition period of the general line. The socialist transformation of handicrafts, like that of agriculture, was also guided by the path of cooperation, converting individual ownership by handicraft workers into collective ownership. This was mainly achieved through three forms: supply and marketing cooperative groups, supply and marketing production cooperatives, and production cooperatives, gradually organizing a large number of dispersed individual handicraft workers, realizing a progress from dispersion to concentration and from low-level to high-level socialist transformation.
2. The Peaceful Redemption of the Bourgeoisie through State Capitalism
The socialist transformation of capitalism in industry and commerce is also an important aspect of the overall strategy during the transitional period. Compared to the socialist reform of agriculture and handicraft industries, the party has created more diverse forms for the socialist transformation of capitalist industry and commerce, based on China's actual conditions. The social achievements of sinicization of Marxism are more remarkable.
Marx and Engels believe that after the proletariat seizes power, they must use their political rule to deprive capitalists of all their means of production and make them owned by the people of the socialist state. It can be done violently or peacefully. They believe that if the property of the bourgeoisie could be completely nationalized by redemption, it would be the cheapest for the proletariat. Based on this idea, Lenin once contemplated compromising with capitalists who were willing to accept state capitalism and implementing redemption after the victory of the October Revolution in Russia and even attempted to do so. However, due to the resistance of the Russian bourgeoisie, it was not realized.
While proposing the general line for the transition period, the Party and Mao Zedong, proceeding from China's actual conditions, creatively pioneered a path for the socialist transformation of capitalist industry and commerce. Based on China's reality, the party and government, with the practice of cooperation with the national bourgeoisie during the period of democratic revolution and the experience of using and limiting policies in capitalist industry and commerce since the founding of New China, adopted peaceful redemption methods. Through entrusted processing, planned ordering, unified purchasing and marketing, entrusted consignment, public-private partnerships, and public-private partnerships in entire industries, these measures effectively resolved the problems of the guidelines, policies, and steps for the socialist transformation of capitalist industry and commerce, particularly successfully realizing the redemption of the bourgeoisie.
In China, the reality of Marxist-Leninist notion on the peaceful redemption of the bourgeoisie is possible. The Chinese national bourgeoisie not only has two sides during the period of democratic revolution, but also during the socialist period. The Chinese national bourgeoisie, during the process of socialist revolution, has both the side of exploiting the working class for profit and the side that endorses the constitution and is willing to accept socialist reform. Due to the victory of the New Democratic Revolution, the people have a powerful state machine, the state-owned socialist economy controls the economic lifelines of the nation, the movement for agricultural cooperation is underway, and the alliance between workers and farmers is constantly being consolidated. Under such circumstances, the national bourgeoisie has to accept transformation.
Adoption of state capitalism in various forms to actualize the peaceful redemption of private capitalism is an outstanding achievement of the Party in Sinicizing Marxism. Before 1953, in the process of restoring the national economy, preliminary forms of state capitalism, mainly processing orders, unified purchasing and marketing, had already developed considerably within the private industry. After the party proposed the general line for the transition period, the socialist transformation of capitalist industry and commerce entered a new stage. After investigation and study, the party and government decided to actively yet prudently include necessary, transformable private factories into the co-operative track, and to transform public-private enterprises into socialist enterprises when conditions are mature. Consequently, transformation of the private industry and commerce through state capitalism and the planned, steady progression from a primary state capitalism form to an advanced one become the primary guidelines for advancing the socialist transformation of capitalist industry and commerce.  As pointed out by Mao Zedong in 1953, state capitalism "exists under the management of the people's government, and is linked with the state-run socialist economy in various forms, and is under worker supervision." "It primarily exists not for the profit of the capitalists, but to meet the needs of the people and the state." "This new type of state capitalist economy is largely of a socialist nature, and is beneficial to workers and the state." In September of the same year, when Mao Zedong spoke with representatives of democratic parties and the business sector, he clearly stated that "state capitalism is the necessary path to reform capitalist industry and commerce and gradually complete the socialist transition."
During the process of transforming capitalist commerce and industry, the party and the government took into account the legitimate profits due to capitalists, using the method of redemption for their means of production. On September 7, 1953, Mao Zedong proposed the famous "Four Horses Share the Fattening" principle in a conversation with representatives of democratic parties and the industrial and commercial sectors. According to this principle, while the working class is producing for the state, it also produces some profits for the capitalists to redeem the bourgeoisie. Due to the adoption of a complete set of peaceful transformation policies and strategies, in conjunction with the progressive elements, democratic parties, and the Majority of the National Industrial and Commercial Federation, played a beneficial collaborative role in the process of socialist transformation. China successfully achieved the peaceful redemption of the bourgeoisie once envisaged by Marx and Lenin. In the transformation of the whole capitalist private ownership, not only were productive forces not destroyed, they developed. In 1955, the productivity of workers in joint state-private industrial enterprises was about twice as high as that in private industrial enterprises.
During the process of transforming capitalist commerce and industry, the party and government also combined the transformation of capitalist private ownership with the transformation of capitalists, implementing a policy of unity, education, and transformation for the national bourgeoisie. While transforming the capitalists, necessary work arrangements are provided for them, their political rights are not deprived, and they are given electoral rights; suitable political arrangements are given to representative figures who have contributed to the transformation. After the socialist transformation of capitalist commerce and industry, by 1956, the capitalist has separated from the ownership of the means of production and is no longer the original exploiter and ruler, but has become an enterprise employee serving socialism under the leadership of the party and the supervision of the workers. Although the capitalists are still receiving a fixed interest of five percent annually, this has nothing to do with the original enterprise profits, and for most people, this is no longer their main income. The vast majority of them have changed their exploitative class positions and have become workers or state cadres who support the party's leadership and the socialist system. This is a great victory for the party and government's policy of peaceful transformation of the national bourgeoisie.
During the process of peacefully transforming capitalist commerce and industry, the party and government creatively applied Marxism-Leninism to the reality of China and successfully opened up a path to transform capitalism. Specifically, this is reflected in: First, adopting a series of transitions from low to high levels, such as commissioned processing, planned ordering, unified purchasing and marketing, commissioned distribution, joint public-private ownership, and comprehensive industry public-private partnerships, gradually and not abruptly changing the ownership of the bourgeoisie. Second, redeeming the bourgeoisie through the method of state capitalism, compensating instead of uncompensated, using peaceful methods instead of violent deprivation, transforming national capitalist enterprises into state capitalism, and achieving successful redemption of the bourgeoisie. Third, maintain a political alliance with the national bourgeoisie, treating the bourgeoisie as an internal contradiction among the people, adopting a policy of both unity and struggle, to eliminate the national bourgeoisie and gradually transform the majority of this class into workers. After socialist transformation, China's united front continues to be consolidated and developed, the national bourgeoisie and all democratic parties have entered socialist society with other worker, contributing to the building of socialism. These experiences of peacefully transforming capitalist enterprises, based on China's actual conditions, have enriched and developed the scientific socialist theory of Marxism.
The reason why our country was able to successfully forge a path in the socialist transformation of capitalist industry and commerce that was in line with China's actual conditions was, crucially, due to the Party's profound understanding of China's national conditions and accurate grasp of the characteristics of the national bourgeoisie. In the practice of the New Democratic Revolution and the establishment of New China, the Communist Party has a long history of cooperation with the national bourgeoisie, and has always given a fair assessment of the Chinese national bourgeoisie, which is different from the bourgeoisie of other countries and has a special status and significant influence in history. Even after the contradiction between the working class and the national bourgeoisie was put forward as the main social contradiction and the struggle to limit and oppose restrictions was launched, the Party still has a clear understanding that the national bourgeoisie has mastered modern culture and modern enterprise technology management knowledge, "regardless of the past or present, this class has a great influence and role in our society." Based on this understanding, plus the party's policy of using, restricting, and transforming capitalist industry and commerce, and each step taken according to this policy, is "formulated after studying all aspects of the actual situation and in response to the urgent needs of the country's economy and people's livelihood." Therefore, the socialist transformation of capitalist industry and commerce "not only received the endorsement of the masses, but also failed to find any solid reasons to refuse or oppose by the capitalists." Here, the study of "all aspects of actual conditions" and "responding to the urgent needs of the country's economy and people's livelihood" is obviously an important link in the Chineseization of Marxism and the successful guidance of the socialist transformation of capitalist industry and commerce.
In summary, although the transitional goal and the rapidly reached target model are basically the Soviet model, in the specific methods and ways of socialist transformation, we have our own creation that conforms to China's national conditions.
However, the central government soon became aware of the limitations of the Soviet model and began to explore China's own path of construction. Mao Zedong's "On the Ten Major Relationships" in 1956 is a landmark work of the Party's exploration of the Chinese-style socialist construction path and is the precursor of the construction of socialism with Chinese characteristics. Around the party's Eighth National Congress in 1956, the party put forward a series of important, correct, or relatively correct guidelines and policies on major issues such as the main contradiction in socialist society, China's industrialization path, the proportional relationship between various sectors of socialist modernization construction, construction speed, the party's policy towards intellectuals, the party's ethnic policy and united front policy, the guideline for the development of science and culture, the promotion of socialist democracy, economic system reform and other leading socialist modernization construction. In 1960, Mao Zedong said in "A Decade Review": "For the first eight years, we copied foreign experiences. Since the proposal of the ten major relations in 1956, we began to find our own way suitable for China and began to reflect China's objective economic laws." However, mainly due to the constraints of the times, this reform did not touch the core of the traditional Soviet model, and more often it was a modification within the system.
Experience has proved that treating socialist public ownership as the sole economic foundation of socialist society, and the single socialist economic structure as the only correct path for our country, thus excluding the existence of various forms of ownership economies, does not accord with the basic national conditions of China's very backward economy. The formation of a single planned economic pattern in our country after the socialist transformation, although there are historical and practical reasons, and has played an important positive role, should not be absolutized in terms of its model and experience from the perspective of subsequent development. The urge to succeed in the "Great Leap Forward" and the People's Commune movement in the late 1950s was actually rooted in its embryonic form in the Three Major Transformations. The historical experience of socialist transformation in our country shows that the great practice of combining the basic principles of Marxism with the reality of China requires the untiring exploration and effort of the Communists. Especially in applying universal principles scientifically and accurately grasping particular national conditions, a clear understanding must be obtained.
Even though the party's understanding of socialism was not mature in the mid-1950s, and there were some shortcomings and deviations in the socialist transformation, speaking from the perspective of the overall development of China's economy and society in the 1950s, and from the context of the international background of the socialist and capitalist camps' opposition, cold war, the party led hundreds of millions of people to choose the socialist road, which was inevitable and completely correct.
3. The start of socialist industrialization.
While carrying out socialist transformation, our country implemented the first Five-Year Plan to develop the national economy from 1953 to 1957. The economic construction tasks specified in the plan were mainly reliant on our own strength, supplemented by the assistance of the Soviet Union and other friendly countries. Major achievements were made by the end of 1957. Infrastructure construction progressed smoothly, with the completion of a large number of important engineering projects. A number of industrial sectors necessary for national industrialization, which were not in existence beforehand, were established from scratch, strengthening the might of basic industries. Industrial technological foundation was enhanced, with a significant increase in the production level. From 1953 to 1956, there was rapid economic development, good economic results, and relatively balanced proportions among important economic sectors. The market prospered, and prices were stable. People's living conditions improved significantly. There was also significant development in the fields of culture, education, science, and health. The completion of the first Five-Year Plan and the significant achievements made played an important role in China's start-up phase of industrialization, laying an initial foundation for the implementation of socialist industrialization.
In the process of implementing the "First Five-Year" plan, although we paid attention to learning from the construction experience of the Soviet Union, we also focused on starting from China's actual conditions and consistently pursued the thinking principle of combining the universal principles of Marxism with the practice of China's construction, enriching and advancing the scientific socialist theory of Marxism. This was evident in various aspects: first, we concentrated major efforts on developing heavy industries, but we did not develop heavy industries in isolation. Instead, we planned comprehensively and omnivorously, achieving a comprehensive balance between sectors and allowing the economy to develop proportionately and coordinated according to the plan. Second, the scale and speed of economic construction had to be based on actual conditions, correctly estimating the possibility of the growth of our subjective and objective forces. Third, we adhered to the principle of self-reliance supported with foreign assistance. During the "First Five-Year" plan, although we received great help from the Soviet government, we still insisted on and emphasized self-reliance and never relied on foreign assistance for issues that could be solved by ourselves. In 1956, the Central Committee further proposed the principle of establishing a comprehensive, independent industrial system. This held profound significance for adhering to our independent stance amidst dramatic changes in international relations. Fourth, the Party required that in the construction of a planned economy, the relationship between accumulation and consumption should be handled correctly, appropriately combining the development of production with the improvement of people's livelihood.
Under the leadership of the first-generation central leadership collective, with Mao Zedong at its core, the establishment of New China and the establishment of the socialist basic system is a significant achievement of the sinicization of Marxism and a great historic transformation in our country's society in the 20th century. In this historical change, due to the influence of the Soviet Union and other socialist countries, as well as the worldwide understanding of socialism at that time, the process of sinicization of Marxism in this stage was realized by incorporating the Soviet model of the Stalin era and applying it to the situation in China. Therefore, the socialist model formed after the completion of China's three major transformations had a clear Soviet influence. This was unavoidable at the time. The socialist transformation left many problems, which could be attributed to hasty and rough work, but fundamentally, it was due to the influence of the Soviet model. The Central Committee soon discovered these issues, began to adjust and reform the model formed by the socialist transformation and strived to explore a way of building socialism that was uniquely China's in practice.

Chapter Five A Good Start to the "Second Leap" of Sinicization of Marxism
Only after tens of years can people see more and more clearly that 1956 is a year of profound significance for both the Chinese Communists and the international communist movement. The significance of this turning point was manifested in the same year, with two major turning points happening simultaneously at home and abroad. Internationally, socialist countries began to reform the Stalinist model, and socialism was facing a profound shift from traditional to contemporary. At this point, the main issue for socialist countries was not whether to reform, but how to reform. Domestically, in 1956, with the basic completion of the socialist transformation of private ownership of means of production as a symbol, the basic socialist system was initially established in China, and China entered into the primary stage of socialism. The main tasks of the Communist Party of China were to shift from revolution to comprehensive construction, and to start the reform of the Soviet Union model from the replication of the Soviet Union model, that is, to begin exploring China's own path of socialist construction. The overlap and interplay of these two provided a rare opportunity for our country's construction and reform, but also greatly increased the difficulty of our choice of model. For example, our methods, paths, and standards for establishing a socialist society, and the socialist system established accordingly, were basically copied from the Stalinist model. This means that the socialism that we had just established in 1956 was already a socialism that needed multiple reforms. However, compared with countries such as the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe that were also reforming, this model has existed in our country for a short time and its disadvantages are not fully manifested. This undoubtedly increases the difficulty of understanding.
The starting point of China's socialist construction is far below the initial conception of socialism by the founders of Marxism, and also below that of the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe. In such countries, constructing socialism does not have ready answers in the texts of Marxism, nor successful experiences in the world's socialist movement that can be borrowed. China once regarded the Stalinist model as a learning example, but the dazzling aura of this model gradually dimmed in the era of reform that began in 1956. Pressures and constraints decreased, old dogmatism was no longer effective, and the space for exploration increased. Where does China's socialist path lead to? How to conduct China's reform? Represented by Mao Zedong, the first generation of the party leadership was high-spirited, liberated in thought, determined to continue to creatively develop Marxism on the basis of the first leap of Sinicizing Marxism, and realize the second leap of Sinicization of Marxism.
I. What is socialism?
1. Thoughts and practices of socialist by classical Marxist writers
Socialism, as a concept, theory, ideal, and belief, as well as a practice and movement, has had a profound and far-reaching historical impact on human society. It manifests mankind's aspiration and pursuit of an ideal future society, and has sparked numerous social movements of various sizes and forms since modern times. Over the past century, several generations of classic Marxist authors have proposed a variety of ideas about socialism, demonstrating a balance between inheritance and differentiation, as well as universality and specificity. Under the guidance and influence of these philosophies, Marxists and leftist movement leaders from various eras and countries have put forward various proposals. These proposals vary greatly due to differences in their origins in the East or West, developing or developed countries, nations with different historical and cultural traditions, and different historical contexts. It is incredibly challenging to summarize them under a common, standard framework. In facing the history of scientific socialism that has evolved over the past century, the most accurate response that can be given is: it is a social movement that evolves in tune with the development of the productive forces and societal norms, continuously improves human living conditions, and strives for social fairness and justice. This intricate and rich history and reality of socialism profoundly influences the Chinese Communist Party's vision for, and expectations of, the socialist system.
In the 19th century, Marx and Engels founded the theory of historical materialism and the surplus value theory, placing the longstanding socialist idea "upon a concrete basis," and established the theory of scientific socialism. They were convinced that in the process of achieving socialism and communism, regardless of the amount of theory and idealism, agitation, armed struggle, and self-sacrifice required, it is a "natural history process" that must be based on a level of productive force development higher than that of capitalism. The realization of socialism inevitably involves the proletarian revolution and the dictatorship of the proletariat. After a socialist society is formed, it will undergo a developmental process from immaturity to maturity and will exhibit stages due to differences in the level of economic and social development. Its implementation will exhibit different characteristics in different countries, eras, and ethnic groups. The future society's material precondition is highly developed social productivity, with the means of production owned by the entire society. The principles of distribution according to work and then according to needs will be applied to consumer goods. Social production will be organized and planned, the state will gradually wither away, and members of society will attain free and comprehensive development, and more.
In addition, Marx placed great emphasis on exploring the path of development for Eastern societies. He proposed that under certain conditions, Eastern societies could leap over the "Caudine Forks" of capitalism and directly enter the socialist society. Socialism should absorb the "all positive outcomes created by the capitalist system" along with other valuable concepts. In his later years, Engels linked the new characteristics of capitalist development with future society, proposing that the development of capitalism prepared more comprehensive material conditions for socialism, and that tactics in the proletarian revolutionary struggle should change according to historical conditions, among other key ideas.
Around the time of the October Revolution, Lenin once envisaged relying on the power of the Soviet state to suppress the resistance of capitalists and landlords, confiscate their means of production for the ownership of the workers' state, expand people's democracy, and quickly transition from the dictatorship of the proletariat to a socialist society. However, as practice developed, Lenin realized that in a backward Russia, where peasants constituted the majority of the population and the petty bourgeoisie was unprecedentedly widespread, the transition to socialism would inevitably be a long and difficult process. Hence, Russia would remain in a transitional period from capitalism to socialism for an extended period. Therefore, after seizing power, Lenin began to view issues from the perspective of the sharpening class struggle during the revolutionary period, and gradually shifted to viewing issues more from the level of development of productive forces, associating the fate of socialism more directly with the level of development of productive forces. So, he repeatedly emphasized that after the Russian proletariat seizes power, they must quickly shift their focus to economic construction and establish the material foundation for socialism as soon as possible. They must learn from and utilize the excellent accomplishments of capitalist civilization, and implement state capitalism controlled and guided by the proletariat, as an intermediate link to transition to socialism. He also recognized that some contents of the future "socialist society" he envisaged are often still abstract. They can only become reality through a series of various, imperfect, specific attempts to establish this or that socialist state. The difference between socialism in reality in Russia and socialism as Marx and Engels had envisaged made Lenin profoundly realize that the era of arguing about socialism based on books had passed, and everything henceforth must be measured by practice. The methodological significance of Lenin's thoughts is that theory is necessary, but socialism in practice is of fundamental significance. Theories must develop with the advancement of practice and must be tested by practice. Marxism must continually be nationalized and modernized, and this can only be achieved through practice. Such a view of socialism is an extremely valuable spiritual treasure that Lenin left for later generations. However, for quite a long time, Lenin's successors and students did not deeply understand his earnest intentions.
The attack of international imperialism in 1918 and the rebellion of the domestic anti-revolutionary White Army disrupted the pace of socialist construction and reform by Lenin and the Bolshevik Party, and also brought some changes to his understanding of socialism. To cope with the needs of war, the state began to implement the "War Communism" policy. Although this policy played a huge role in supporting the war, because it went beyond the actual historical stage, it soon led to nationwide resistance and unrest. The convening of the Tenth Congress of the Communist Party of Russia (Bolshevik) in the spring of 1921 marked a historic shift from War Communism to the New Economic Policy. The treatises "On the Replacement of Surplus Grain Collection with a Tax in Kind" and "On the Food Tax" reflect Lenin's ideological shift in socialist concepts in the early stages of the New Economic Policy. He pragmatically allowed the free movement of food and free trade, pointing out that these have positive significance for the realization of industrial and agricultural, urban and rural product exchanges, and the consolidation of the worker-peasant alliance. In some of his most important works later in life, such as "On Cooperation", "On the Russian Revolution" and "Better Fewer, But Better", his socialist view underwent significant development. He began to break away from traditional thinking that socialism requires the elimination of commodity-money relationships, state planning to control social production, and that free trade is capitalism. For the first time, he included the principle of a commodity economy into the scope of socialism, representing an important leap in socialist concept. Lenin fully affirmed that the underdeveloped Russia can create and develop modern civilization and achieve a socialist society entirely through pathways different from those of Western European countries. The Bolshevik Party, on the basis of obtaining the political prerequisites necessary for the development of socialism, must strive to create the material basis required for socialism. Lenin's later socialist thinking, based on new developments and circumstances in Russian socialist practice, combined a spirit of constant exploration with a balance of revolutionary and flexible elements. This enriched and broadened Marxist and Engels's socialist thinking.
After Lenin's death, in the process of leading the socialist revolution and construction of the Soviet Union, Stalin gradually formed his own socialist construction thought. He adhered to the theory of building socialism in one country, advocated prioritizing the development of heavy industry, and understood the industrialization of socialism as the industrialization of heavy industry. In agriculture, he implemented total collectivization, requiring a rapid change in the entire form of ownership of rural means of production, which would leap to socialism to guarantee the commodities and industrial materials needed by the state. He also put forward the point that class struggle becomes more and more acute, and that all achievements in socialist construction are the results of class struggle. He changed Lenin's "New Economic Policy" idea and way, and after defeating the internal opposition within the party, he launched movements for high-speed industrialization and total agricultural collectivization. After a large purge within and outside the party, by the late 1930s and early 1940s he basically formed the "Stalin Model". Without experience, surrounded by strong enemies, and with development speed being decisive and economic development needing to be driven by strong administrative power rather than economic levers, along with various factors such as Russian traditional culture, this model adapted to the needs for high-speed development at that time in some key aspects. It satisfied the inherent requirements of Soviet social development, and laid the foundation for consolidating and developing the first socialist state and achieving great victory in the war of national defense. However, this model's drawbacks, including its high degree of centralization in politics, economy and culture, its restrictions on commodity economy, its promotion of hierarchical bureaucracy and personal worship, its "leftist" dogmatic tendencies in socialist view, and its large-state chauvinism in foreign relations, brought serious consequences to the construction of socialism in the Soviet Union and the entire international communist movement.
2. The Rise of the Great Tide of Socialist Reform
After World War II, socialism expanded beyond the boundaries of a single country, forming the socialist alliance. As the first socialist country, the Soviet Union's historical legitimacy, its great achievements in economic construction in the 1920s and 1930s, its status as a superpower, and the needs of international political struggle led other socialist countries to follow the Soviet model of construction. Yet, at the same time, the Communist parties and workers' parties of these countries showed a strong desire to follow a national path and expressed their demands for reforming certain drawbacks of the Soviet model. The tendency for Marxism to become nationalized and regionalized gradually became apparent. Even within the Soviet Union, in view of its own historical experience and the new situation after the war, it began to make limited modifications to the original model. In 1952, Stalin's "Problems of Soviet Socialist Economy" did not fundamentally break from the traditional socialist model, but it did revise some traditional understandings and develop the theory of scientific socialism, pushing the contemporization of Marxism to some extent. After Stalin's death in 1953, the new leadership of the Soviet Communist Party was likely to accelerate the reform of the Stalinist model, on the basis of continuously reconsidering the pros and cons of the model, and put forward some "thawing" reform measures. The initial reforms opened the gate for USSR and modern socialist reforms. Other socialist countries also made certain adjustments to aspects of the Soviet model from the early 1950s, in accordance with their own national conditions.
The 20th Congress of the Soviet Communist Party, held in February 1956, holds a very important historical status in the history of socialist reform. Though the conference's disclosure and criticism of Stalin's personality cult and its severe consequences brought some negative outcomes, more importantly, it brought about new trends of thought liberation, independent thinking, and breaking away from doctrinism, providing a new opportunity to break the Stalinist model. It enabled Communists and Marxists to re-study Marxism and the new situation and problems faced by the contemporary proletarian revolution and to form country-specific routes, guidelines, and policies with national characteristics. The 20th Congress of the Soviet Communist Party accommodated the tide of reforms in socialism countries at the time, promoted the nationalization and contemporary process of Marxism, and thus advanced Marxism and the international communist movement into a new development phase, despite the congress itself being quite one-sided. It's also essential to note that after Stalin's death, the Soviet leadership had, to some extent, started reforming Stalin's model, which accelerated after 1956. Therefore, from 1953 onward, it was no longer appropriate to generally propose the Soviet model, because it denied the reforms of Stalin's successors and denied the existence of two "Soviet models" separated by 1953, even though these two models still had much in common.
On a direct level, the arguments and practices concerning socialist reform in the 1950s attempted to break from Stalin's socialist model under new historical conditions and based on each country's actual situation to answer "what is socialism" and "how to build socialism". On a deeper level, it also involved the issue of developing Marxism, or pushing contemporization of Marxism, under the new situation based on the tremendous changes in the era's characteristics and each country's specific conditions. This was not merely a matter of breaking from the Stalinist model; the goal was to break through certain key concepts of traditional socialist view. Because without breaking through some traditional socialist ideas, it would be impossible to break the Soviet model. In this sense, the era of socialist reform is also an era of contemporization of Marxism. The 1950s was a critical point for the contemporization of Marxism, and Communist regimes worldwide shared the arduous mission of advancing contemporization of Marxism under new historical conditions, in conjunction with their country's realities.
II. Free the Mind, Walk Your Own Path
1. Break away from superstition, oppose dogmatism
The Chinese Communist Party has been profoundly influenced by Lenin and Stalin's thoughts in many aspects. To a considerable extent, it can be said that the Chinese Communist Party's understanding and acceptance of basic Marxist principles were mainly realized through the intermediary and bridge of the Soviet Communist Party during the Stalin period. As mentioned earlier, shortly after the founding of the New China, due to the constraints of ideology and the international situation as well as the urgent need to restore the national economy, the Chinese Communist Party gradually corrected and abandoned some of its envisagements and plans for the new democratic society from "On New Democracy", "On the Coalition Government" to "Common Program". It fully studied and introduced the Soviet model in politics, economy, culture, and military. This process had certain historical inevitability at the time and played a significant role in building a strong industry, national defense and scientific foundation in China in a short period.
With the basic completion of the socialist transformation of the means of production ownership, a socialist economic system characterized by the public ownership of the means of production and distribution according to labor was established, along with a socialist political system fundamentally characterized by the system of people's congress. Meanwhile, the drawbacks of the planned economic system with a strong Soviet Union imprint began to gradually emerge. The newly established planned economic system was actually facing adjustments and reforms. From 1953 to 1956, in the process of fully learning and introducing the Soviet model, Mao Zedong, who was noted for his opposition to dogmatism during the period of the democratic revolution, was not oblivious to the drawbacks of this model. He even felt "suppressed" and criticized the phenomenon of copying the Soviet model.
Just at this time, the 20th Congress of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union lifted the lid on Stalin, pierced the sacred aura of the Stalinist socialist model, and eliminated the long-standing superstition about Soviet experience. At that time, the leaders of the Communist Party of China were brimming with a sense of liberation. Mao Zedong repeatedly affirmed Khrushchev's criticism of Stalin, saying that it "broke the worship, uncovered the lid, this is a kind of liberation, it's a 'liberation war', everyone dares to speak now, making people think about the issue." He also said that the 20th Congress of the Communist Party pointed out "The Soviet Union, the CPSU, and Stalin were not entirely correct, which dispelled the superstition", "is conducive to opposing dogmatism." He believed that the construction of socialism did not necessarily have to be completely based on the Soviet formula, but could be based on the specific situation of each country, proposing guidelines and policies suitable for the national conditions. "Successful experiences are successful in one country, but if they are copied exactly in another country without being combined with the national conditions they will fail", "This is an important international experience." He further pointed out that the occurrence of the Hungarian events was a consequence of copying the Soviet model, indicating that the issue facing ruling parties in each nation is how to combine the universal truth of the October Revolution with the actual conditions of their own countries. For our party, we should not consider everything that the Soviet Union does as the absolute truth, but should better consider China's problems. At the second plenary session of the Eighth National Congress of the Party, he also proposed: "Both China and the Soviet Union are called socialism, are there differences? There are." After he listed many differences between the two countries, he criticized some comrades: "They do not use the dialectical method, do not analyze... look at issues one-sidedly, think that everything from the Soviet Union is good, all are copied, even things that should not be copied were also copied a lot. Those that are not correctly copied, things that are not suitable for our land, must be changed."
At the same time, other members of the leadership collective of the Communist Party Central Committee also put forward similar ideas. Liu Shaoqi said, "On some issues of socialism, we have new experiences. We should emphasize to summarize our own experiences, solve our own problems with our own experiences, and not copy others. Those who can think independently will not stumble, and those who follow others will make mistakes. Many experiences of the Soviet Union are still worth studying." He also harshly criticized the dogmatic phenomena shown in the field of education when studying the Soviet Union. During the Eighth National Congress, Zhou Enlai said when meeting foreign party delegations: "Stalin's views used to overwhelm everything. Now that the idol has been overthrown, that is what Chinese people say, after breaking the superstition, "the thoughts of the Communist parties of all countries have become active and no longer dull." After overthrowing the personal cult, "everyone's thoughts have also been liberated. This is a great progress for the parties of various countries. This is the liberation of the Communist Party's thinking." He also reminded the whole party that when studying the Soviet Union's experience, they must "think independently, avoid blind obedience, and don't be superstitious." Deng Xiaoping pointed out: "The combination of the universal truth of Marxism and the specific realities of this country is a universal truth in itself. It contains two aspects. One is called universal truth, and the other is combined with national realities. We have always believed that any side cannot be abandoned", "We must study the characteristics of our country. The general truth cannot be realized if we abandon the characteristics of our country and mechanically apply foreign things". At the end of 1956, the "People's Daily" published an article "On the Historical Experience of the Proletarian Dictatorship", which followed the article "On the Historical Experience of the Proletarian Dictatorship" criticizing dogmatism, clearly pointed out: "All Soviet experiences, including the basic experiences, are combined with certain national characteristics, and other countries should not copy them directly ." The idea of "going our own way" has caused a wide resonance and response within and outside the party and has become a consensus of the whole country and all parties.
2. The Proposing of "the Second Combination" Task
On April 5, 1956, the "People's Daily" published an editorial department article "On the Historical Experience of the Dictatorship of the Proletariat", which was reviewed and revised by Mao Zedong, and discussed and approved at the enlarged meeting of the Political Bureau of the Central Committee. It clearly pointed out that we should take the historical view to evaluate Stalin and learn useful lessons from Stalin's mistakes. During the discussion of this article by the Political Bureau of the Central Committee, Mao Zedong emphasized: Regarding the 20th Congress of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, the important issue is what lessons we can learn from it. The most important thing is to combine the basic principles of Marxism-Leninism with the specific reality of the Chinese revolution and construction. We successfully realized this combination during the Democratic Revolution period after eating a lot. We achieved the victory of the Chinese New Democratic Revolution. Now it's the period of socialist revolution and construction, we need to combine for the second time, figuring out how to build socialism in China. I started thinking about this issue a few years ago. Now I want to thank Khrushchev for uncovering the lid. We should think about how to do things according to China's conditions from all aspects and not to be superstitious as in the past. In fact, in the past, we were not completely superstitious, and we had our own creation. Now we need to work harder to find the specific path to build socialism in China. Here, Mao Zedong proposed to the entire party a historically significant task, that is, based on the successful achievement of the "first combination" of Marxism and Chinese reality in the period of the New Democratic Revolution, "second combination" of Marxism and Chinese reality is realized during the beginning of socialist construction. The "second combination" includes two basic implications: firstly, it reaffirms that under historical socialist conditions, the Chinese communists still need to uphold the correct direction of combining Marxism with Chinese reality; secondly, it points out that in order to adapt to new situations and tasks, we can no longer be satisfied with the results of the first combination, and we must realize a new and greater combination based on the past foundation according to new historical conditions.
Mao Zedong's speech on "On the Ten Major Relationships" in April 1956 marked the beginning of the Chinese Communist Party's exploration of China's own path to building socialism. "On the Ten Major Relationships" is a summary by Mao Zedong on behalf of the first generation of the party central leadership collective, based on extensive and in-depth investigation and research, and after many discussions by the central leadership collective. This report established a basic policy and how to construct socialism's basic guiding thought, that is, "strive to turn negative factors into positive factors as much as possible," "strive to mobilize all positive factors within and outside the party, inside and outside the country, direct and indirect positive factors, to build our country into a powerful socialist country." The ten major issues (i.e., the ten major relationships) discussed in the report were derived from summarizing China's experience and studying the problems of China's construction and development, and were also put forward with the Soviet experience as a warning. The report clearly stated from the beginning: "It is especially worth noting that the Soviet Union has recently exposed some of its shortcomings and mistakes in the process of building socialism. Do you still want to take the detour they have taken? In the past, we took less detour due to their experience and lessons. Of course, we should take it as a warning now." 
As previously mentioned, around 1956, our country actually faced two fundamentally significant shifts: one was the shift from establishing a socialist system to starting comprehensive socialist construction, i.e., the shift of the focus of work; the other was the shift from the traditional Stalinist model to the contemporary socialist reform model, exploring a path of socialist construction suitable for China's national conditions that was different from the Soviet model. These two shifts occurred simultaneously, interacted with each other, and on the one hand provided favorable conditions for the "second combination," on the other hand, it also increased the difficulty of the combination. This particularly requires opposition to dogmatism and empiricism, and requires the party to develop Marxism on the premise of adhering to Marxist basic principles and promote the sinicization of Marxism under new historical conditions.
The proposition of the task of the "second combination" shows that the sinicization of Marxism is not a task that can be completed at once, it is a continuous process; it is not a once successful, once correct can be once and for all, but a tortuous and difficult exploration journey. It also proves again that the Chinese Communists timely proposed and emphasized this great historical task, which has historical foresight.
Ⅲ. "The Second Combination": Initial New Ideas on the Path of Socialist Construction
From 1956 to the first half of 1957, guided by the thought of "The Second Combination" of Marxism and Chinese reality, the Party Central Committee put forward many new policies and ideas full of creativity and pioneering spirit in many areas such as economy, politics, and culture. Under new historical conditions, it promoted the historical process of Sinicization of Marxism.
1. Correct grasp of the main contradiction in socialist society
With the early completion of socialist transformation, Mao Zedong and other central leaders began to pay more and more attention to and study the main tasks and main contradictions of socialist society. At the National Party Congress held in August 1955, Mao Zedong had already raised the issue of shifting the central focus of the party's work. He said: "We have entered such a period where what we are engaged in, what we are thinking about, and what we are delving into, is the industrialization of socialism, the transformation of socialism, the modernization of national defense, and we are beginning to delve into the new historical period of nuclear energy." The Eighth National Congress of the Party, based on a correct understanding of the great changes since the founding of the People's Republic of China, clarified the transformation of the main domestic contradiction after the completion of socialist transformation and established the strategic goal of socialist construction. 
The political report and resolution of the Eighth Congress pointed out that after the decisive victory of the socialist transformation, the main domestic contradiction has already been the contradiction between the people's demand for the establishment of an advanced industrial country and the reality of the backward agricultural country. It is already a contradiction between the people's need for rapid economic and cultural development and the current economic and cultural situation that cannot meet the people's needs. The essence of this contradiction is the contradiction between the advanced socialist system and the backward social productivity. This conclusion is not only a correct summary of our country's political situation but also a new understanding of our country's national conditions. It is the basis for the party to determine its correct line after the socialist system is established in our country. The report's approach to the essence of the main contradictions within our country is theoretically not fully accurate because it does not fully point out: the production relations of socialism have been established, and they are compatible with the development of productivity; at the same time, they are still very imperfect, and these imperfections are again contradictory to the development of productivity. However, the focus of this approach is to highlight the basic national conditions where the productivity development in our country is still very low. It emphasizes that under the condition that the socialist transformation of the private ownership of the means of production has been basically completed, the main task of the country is to protect and develop productivity under the new production relations. All the parties should concentrate their efforts to develop productivity and transform our country from a backward agriculture-based country into an advanced industrial society as soon as possible. This is the most important theoretical contribution of the Eighth Congress, the foundation and core of the Eighth Congress line, and also became the consensus of the entire party at that time. Although Mao Zedong expressed disagreement with this statement at that time, he agreed with this main contradiction. Not long after, he once again expressed this thought in "On Correctly Handling the Contradictions among the People". He said: "Our fundamental task has changed from liberating productivity to protecting and developing productivity under the new production relations."; We must "unite the people of all nationalities throughout the country to wage a new war — to declare war on nature, to develop our economy, and develop our culture"; "consolidate our new system and build our new nation". 
2. Transcending the Soviet model in the aspect of the economic construction model.
Based on the correct judgment of the primary contradiction in socialist society, the Eighth Congress of the Party has established a two-stage strategic goal and concept for socialist construction: the first stage is to complete preliminary industrialization within the time frame of three five-year plans; the second stage involves getting close to or catching up with the world's most developed capitalist countries in several decades. According to the new party constitution adopted at the Eighth Congress, the task of the party is to plan the development of the national economy, expedite the industrialization of the country as much as possible, and systematically and step by step carry out technological transformation of the national economy, "so that China has a powerful modern industry, modern agriculture, modern transportation, and modern national defense".
The economic construction policy of persevering in being against conservatism and impetuosity and moving forward steadily in comprehensive balance has been adhered to. As early as the eve of the Eighth Congress, in 1956, when opposing the impetuous tendency in economic construction, Zhou Enlai and Liu Shaoqi pointed out that the development of production and all other undertakings must be based on a solid and reliable foundation, and impetuosity must be opposed while opposing conservatism. Under the guidance of Mao Zedong's philosophy in "On the Ten Major Relationships," the Eighth Congress continued to uphold the policy of advancing steadily in comprehensive balance while opposing both conservatism and impulsivity in economic construction. In his report to the congress, Zhou Enlai pointed out that due to the tense financial and economic situation during the "First Five-Year Plan," the focus should be on the combination of key construction and comprehensive arrangement, so that all sectors of the national economy could develop in proportion. He emphasized the need to increase reserve forces, improve the system of material reserves, and handle the relationship between economics and finance correctly. These insightful summaries reflect the party's correct understanding and careful attitude towards the law of economic development at the beginning of a comprehensive launch of socialist construction. The Second Plenary Session of the Eighth Party Congress adopted Zhou Enlai's proposal that in 1957 the policy of "guaranteeing key points and appropriate contraction" should be implemented, and that the 1957 construction plan should be correctly compiled, thus ensuring that the economic work of that year was one of the best since the founding of the People's Republic of China. This policy for socialist economic construction is not a simple repetition of the experience of our country during the "First Five-Year Plan" and other countries, but a strategic decision made under the guidance of Marxism, combined with China's national conditions and economic situation.
The idea of the path to industrialization with Chinese characteristics has been proposed. In response to the tendency of the Soviet Union and some Eastern European countries to focus on heavy industry development to the detriment of agriculture and light industry, and its adverse impact on our country, Mao Zedong pointed out that the more development of agriculture and light industry "will make heavy industry develop more and faster, and due to the guarantee of people's livelihood needs, its development foundation will be more solid". The Eighth Congress further confirmed this policy. In 1957, Mao Zedong explicitly raised the issue of China's path to industrialization in his article "On Correctly Handling Contradictions Among the People." He pointed out that the issue of the path to industrialization "mainly refers to the relationship between the development of heavy industry, light industry, and agriculture. China's economic construction is centered on heavy industry, which must be affirmed. But at the same time, full attention should be paid to the development of agriculture and light industry." He also pointed out: "China is a big agricultural country, rural population accounts for more than 80 percent of the country’s total population, the development of industry must be alongside the development of agriculture, so that the industry has raw materials and markets, and accumulate more funds for building a strong heavy industry system." Moreover, the active development of the coastal industry can gather strength to support the inland industry, and the proportion of defense costs needs to be reduced. In addition, Mao Zedong proposed that the establishment of an independent and complete industrial system is a key indicator of industrialization. Based on the thoughts of Mao Zedong, Zhou Enlai further interpreted industrialization: "Our industrialization is about having an independent and complete industrial system of our own," "When we talk about establishing a basically complete industrial system in our country, we mainly mean that we can produce adequate major raw materials by ourselves, can independently manufacture machinery, not only ordinary machinery but also heavy and precise machines, can manufacture new, self-defending weapons such as nuclear bombs, missiles, long-range aircraft in the national defense sector; also have corresponding chemical industry, power industry, transportation, light industry, agriculture and so on." These thoughts are an enrichment and development of Marxist theory of industrialization.
3. Preliminary Ideas on Economic System Reform
During the "First Five-Year Plan" period, our country established a highly centralized economic management system in accordance with the Soviet model. While this system has played a significant role in the initial stage of industrialization in backward countries, its drawbacks are also very obvious. The Soviet Union had clearly pointed this out when reflecting on the Stalinist model, and our initial practices deeply identified with it. Mao Zedong and other central leaders summarized China's construction experiences multiple times, and proposed the need to change the highly centralized economic management system. From May 1956, through the Eighth National Congress of the Party, and to the Third Plenary Session of the Eighth Central Committee of the Party in 1957, the Party made its first attempts to reform the economic management system. This is mainly reflected in the following aspects:
(1) The central government decentralizes power to local authorities. In "On the Ten Major Relationships", Mao Zedong proposed the relationship issue between the central and local governments. He said: "What we need to pay attention to right now is that, while consolidating the unified leadership of the central government, we should expand the authority of the localities a bit, give them more independent rights, and let them manage more things." "Our country is so big, the population is so large, and the conditions are so complex, having both central and local initiatives is much better than having only one. We can't be like the Soviet Union, centralize everything and tightly control the localities that they don't have any maneuverability." Accordingly, Zhou Enlai focused on this issue during the national system conference held from May to August 1956. He pointed out that absolute centralization equals no power, and decentralization between the central and local governments was to bring local initiative into play. He proposed that local power should be expanded in terms of planning, finance, enterprises, social undertakings, basic construction, and organization. The Eighth National Congress of the Party pointed out that the relationship between the central and local governments should be properly adjusted. According to the principles of unified leadership, hierarchical management, and adapting measures to local conditions, the national administrative system should be improved, the scope of management for enterprises, social undertakings, planning, and finance should be defined, and the management authority of localities should be appropriately expanded.
(2) Expanding corporate powers. It is proposed in the "On Ten Major Relationships" that "It's inappropriate to concentrate everything at the central or provincial and municipal levels, without giving the factories any power, any manoeuvring space, or any benefits. We lack experience in determining the appropriate extent of the rights and interests of the central, provincial and municipal governments, and the factories, and further research is needed.". "All production units need to have an independence connected to uniformity in order to develop more vigorously." After this, Mao Zedong further said in several speeches that enterprises should have "autonomy", becoming open and legal "semi-independent kingdoms"; factories should have independent power, which would be better for the whole country's industrialization.
(3) The "Three Main Bodies" and "Three Supplements". In response to the increasingly monolithic ownership and economic management structure, Chen Yun proposed at the Eighth Party Congress that we need to build a "socialist economy beneficial to the people" and the idea of "three main bodies and three supplements". This includes: In terms of industrial and commercial operations, state-owned and collectively owned operations are the main bodies of industry and commerce, and a certain number of individual operations supplement the state-owned and collectively owned operations; planned production is the main body of industrial and agricultural production, free production within the scope of the state plan according to market changes is the supplement to planned production; the state market is the main body, and a certain range of state-led free markets supplement the state market. Zhou Enlai also said: "The mainstream is socialism, the small part should be given some freedom. This can help the development of socialism." "Probably in industry, agriculture, commerce, education, and the military, except for the military, every field can have a bit of freedom and operate some private businesses. Culture can also run some private businesses." Mao Zedong, Liu Shaoqi, Zhou Enlai and others have called this policy of "eliminating capitalism and then promoting capitalism" the "new economic policy".
(4) The socialist economy should have both a planned nature and diversity and flexibility. The thoughts Mao Zedong put forward at the end of 1956 about allowing the establishment of underground factories and the possibility of eliminating and then promoting capitalism actually represented the ideas of many people in the Central Leadership Collective. In the spring of 1957, Liu Shaoqi visited the south and developed Mao Zedong's ideas. He said at a meeting of party members and cadres in Shanghai: the characteristic of the socialist economy is the planned economy, "But in reality, socio-economic activities, including various sectors and aspects, there are thousands, tens of thousands, or hundreds of thousands, the state plan cannot possibly plan for that many varieties, it can only plan for that many categories, and the result is that it simplifies and rigidifies socio-economic life". Our socialist economy should "have several characteristics at the same time: it should have a planned nature, but also diversity and flexibility, and this needs to make use of the free market". Later, he also said: "In studying the socialist economy, we need to pay particular attention to one problem, which is to make the socialist economy both planned and diverse and flexible." The Soviet Union's lessons in this regard are worth our attention. They only have socialism's planned nature, only focus on the planned economy, and so become rigid, with no diversity or flexibility. "We must make our economy more diverse, more flexible than the capitalist economy. If our economy is not as diverse and flexible as the capitalist economy, and only has a rigid planned nature, then what is the superiority of socialism? We must make the diversity and flexibility of the socialist economy surpass that of capitalism, and enrich and make more convenient and flexible our people's economic lives."
Despite the interruption of these important ideas due to the expansion of the anti-rightist movement, they have broken through the highly centralized planned economic model of the Soviet Union to a certain extent, transcended the understanding of traditional socialism to some extent, and have already touched on major theoretical issues such as how to understand the relationship between socialism and capitalism, and the planned economy and market economy.
4. Thoughts on Constructing Socialist Democratic Politics
(1) Initially proposed the idea of multi-party cooperation and political consultation system under the leadership of the Communist Party of China during the socialist period.
Around 1956, based on the specific conditions of our country, the Chinese Communist Party Central Committee summarized the experiences and lessons from the period of the democratic revolution, and absorbed the experiences and lessons from the international communist movement. They clearly proposed that the Chinese Communist Party, as the leading core, should establish a mutual aid and cooperative relationship with other democratic parties in building socialism. In April 1956, while receiving reports from relevant departments of the State Council, Mao Zedong first proposed the idea of "long live for both." He said, "Long live the Communist Party, and long live the democratic parties. They can watch us, and this is also a form of democracy." He also proposed in "On the Ten Major Relationships," "Is it better to have one party or several parties? It seems that it's probably better to have several parties. Not only was it like this in the past, it can also be like this in the future, that is, we can coexist over a long period, and supervise each other." He also stated, "We should unite with all democrats who kindly offer us suggestions," "We should continue to mobilize their enthusiasm," "This is beneficial for the Party, the people, and socialism." In September, Mao Zedong pointed out while revising the political report of the Eighth Congress, "Under the dictatorship of the proletariat, it can be a one-party system, or a multi-party system under the leadership of the working-class revolutionary party," "Because of the different political and economic conditions of each country, there will be differences. Such differences exist among every distinct ethnicity, and there may be even more differences among some ethnicities." In "On the Correct Handling of Contradictions Among the People," Mao Zedong emphasized the implementation of the policy of "long-term coexistence, mutual supervision" as an important issue in the correct handling of contradictions among the people. In Mao Zedong's view, whether to adopt a one-party system or a multi-party system, it has to be combined with the actual situation of one's own country and not just copied. Liu Shaoqi emphasized at the Eighth Congress that we must adhere to the policy of "long-term coexistence, democratic supervision" in the correct handling of relations between the Communist Party and other democratic parties and democrats, and continue to strengthen and consolidate the United Front of People's Democracy. Deng Xiaoping also pointed out that in the political life of the state, we should fully play the role of democratic parties and let democratic parties function more effectively in all aspects of state affairs. Thus, the Party proposed the idea of "long live the Communist Party and long live the democratic parties," thus initially establishing the democratic political structure of the multi-party cooperation system led by the Communist Party. This is a socialist democratic mode different from the Soviet model.
(2) The party proposed the expansion of socialist democracy and the strengthening of the construction of the socialist legal system. 
In July 1956, Zhou Enlai proposed: "Our people's democratic dictatorship should be: the dictatorship continues, and democracy needs to be expanded," "this point carries more essential significance," "To solve this problem, we need to think of some ways in our state system." In this regard, Liu Shaoqi pointed out at the Eighth Grand Congress that we need to strengthen the supervision of central government organs by the National People's Congress and its Standing Committee, and the supervision of local government organs at all levels by local people's congresses at all levels; we need to further expand democratic life and wage a struggle against bureaucracy. At the same time, the party recognized that the realization of various socialist democratic systems must be democratized and legalized. The political report of the Eighth Grand Congress clearly pointed out that one of the urgent tasks in the current state work is to systematically formulate a relatively complete set of laws and improve the legal system. Dong Biwu proposed at the Eighth Grand Congress that to abide by the law means there must be laws to abide by and laws must be obeyed. This is "one of the main methods to eliminate the phenomenon of not paying attention to and not complying with national laws." After listing the phenomena of the incompleteness of our country's legal system, he pointed out that we need to gradually improve the legal system and quickly formulate a series of laws such as criminal law, civil law, litigation law, labor law, and land use law, and speed up the implementation of the lawyer system and the notary system. These understandings and requirements reflect the party's high attention to political democracy before and after the Eighth Congress and the direction of the government's management towards institutionalization and legalization.
5. Thoughts on Valuing Intellectuals and Scientific Technology Issues and Adhering to the "Double Hundred" Policy
Due to the special national conditions of the socialist revolution and construction in backward countries, how to properly treat the intellectual issue has always been a prominent problem. In China, due to the fact that the revolutionary base has been in rural areas far away from cities for a long time, and the main body of the revolutionary team is farmers, how to treat intellectuals is also a very prominent issue. With the completion of socialist transformation and the full development of socialist construction, as well as in light of the advent of the new world technological revolution, the importance of intellectuals and scientific technology has become increasingly prominent. However, some of the party members lacked an understanding of the importance of intellectuals, and there were disagreements on the class nature of intellectuals, and there were even serious sectarian tendencies of disrespect for intellectuals. After an investigation, the United Front Work Department of the Central Committee summarized the problems concerning intellectuals in relevant departments as "Six Nos", namely: insufficient estimation, lack of trust, improper arrangement, improper use, unfair treatment, and insufficient help. In order to quickly change this situation, on November 22, 1955, Zhou Enlai reported to Mao Zedong about the intellectual issue, proposing to discuss the intellectual issue at a plenary meeting of the National Committee of the CPPCC. The next day, Mao Zedong convened a meeting of all members of the Central Secretariat and relevant leaders of the Central Committee to decide to adopt Zhou Enlai's opinion and hold a meeting to fully address the intellectual issue. In January 1956, the Central Committee held a meeting on the issue of intellectuals. In the report on the "Issue of Intellectuals" delivered at the meeting, Zhou Enlai emphasized the importance of science and technology and intellectuals. He pointed out that, in the socialist era, it is more necessary than any previous era to fully improve production technology, fully develop science and utilize scientific knowledge, and science and technology are "decisive factors related to our defense, economy, and culture". At this meeting, the Central Committee called for "marching towards modern science", but without the participation and efforts of the majority of intellectuals, it is impossible to develop science and use it. Mao Zedong's speech at the meeting emphasized that, to carry out technological and cultural revolutions and promote science, to fight against ignorance, it is impossible without intellectuals, merely relying on the crude masses. 
While fully affirming the political changes and progress of intellectuals after the founding of New China, the meeting on intellectuals issued a new judgment on their class attributes. In his report, Zhou Enlai announced that the vast majority of intellectuals in our country have become national staff, serving socialism, and have become part of the working class. In February, the Central Committee's "Guidance on the Issue of Intellectuals" also pointed out that "fundamental changes" have taken place in the face of Chinese intellectuals. The vast majority of them either are actively supporting the Communist Party and socialism politically or have already moved to a position of supporting the Communist Party and socialism; the basic team of intellectuals has already become staff serving socialism, and has become part of the working people. "In the socialist construction cause, the alliance of workers, peasants, and intellectuals has been formed." Based on this understanding, the Central Committee particularly emphasized giving full political trust and proper work arrangements to intellectuals to play a significant role in socialist construction. This greatly enhanced the class belonging of intellectuals and mobilized their enthusiasm for participating in socialist construction.
At the Symposium on Intellectual Issues, Zhou Enlai also elaborated on the immense role of science and technology for socialist construction. He stated that the socialist era requires more than ever before to fully enhance production technology, fully develop science, and utilize scientific knowledge. Given China's extremely backward state of science and technology and the rapidly progressing reality of world science and technology, he called on behalf of the Party Central Committee for a "March to Science", hoping to develop and enhance China's technological strength as much as possible in order to catch up with the advanced level of the world in the not too distant future. After the conference, the Party Central Committee actively began drafting medium and long-term visions for the development of science and technology to advance all aspects of construction projects. In March 1956, the State Council established a Science Planning Committee. Under the organization of Zhou Enlai, Chen Yi, Li Fuchun, Nie Rongzhen, and other leaders, they gathered more than 600 scientists, invited nearly a hundred Soviet experts, and spent several months deliberating and drafting the "1956-1967 Long-term Plan for the Development of Science and Technology (Revised Draft)". Focusing on some particularly important but relatively weak aspects in China, they also formulated four urgent measures for 1956. Under the guidance of the Central Propaganda Department, the Academic Division of Social Sciences of the Chinese Academy of Sciences also organized a group of experts to draft a long-term plan for the development of philosophy and social sciences over the next twelve years.
In view of the downsides of the Soviet cultural system, the party proposed the fundamental policy of "Let a hundred flowers bloom, let a hundred schools of thought contend" for the prosperity and development of culture and science and technology. In the first few years after the establishment of the People's Republic of China, the field of science and culture was influenced by the crude style and dogmatism of Soviet academic criticism in the context of fully accepting Soviet experiences, promulgating one school of thought, suppressing another, slapping political labels, etc., which were fairly serious in some academic fields. In response to these circumstances, Mao Zedong asked the Propaganda Department to specially study the dogmatic attitude towards Soviet scientific schools in scientific research and academic research. In late April 1956, during the discussion of Mao Zedong's "On the Ten Major Relationships" report at the enlarged Politburo meeting, it was suggested that political ideological issues be separated from academic, artistic, and technical issues; in order to develop culture and science, it was necessary to carry out Mao Zedong's earlier slogans "Let a hundred flowers bloom" and "Let a hundred schools of thought contend". The "Two Hundred Policy" advocates that different artistic forms and styles can develop freely, different scientific schools can debate freely, and opposes using administrative power to forcefully promote one style or one school. The precondition for implementing the "Two Hundred Policy" is not to violate the constitution. Carrying out the "Two Hundred Policy" will not weaken but instead strengthen Marxism's leading position in the ideological world. In March 1957, Mao Zedong further pointed out at the National Propaganda Work Conference on the issue of "let go" or "retract" that "Let a hundred flowers bloom and let a hundred schools of thought contend is a fundamental and long-term policy, not a temporary one", demonstrating his firm resolve to implement the "Two Hundred Policy". He even proposed that the party's guiding ideology - Marxism can also be doubted and criticized; if Marxism is afraid of criticism, and if it collapses with one criticism, it should collapse, because such Marxism is useless. Such an understanding and guiding ideology provides an open and relaxed democratic atmosphere for intellectuals to showcase their talents. 
6. On the Thought of Correctly Handling Ethnic Relations
Around the Eighth National Congress, the Chinese Communist Party conducted extensive exploration to properly handle ethnic relations. In April 1956, the Central Committee issued instructions on checking the implementation of ethnic polices. Mao Zedong discussed the relationship between the Han nationality and minority nationalities in "On the Ten Great Relationships" saying: "Our policy is relatively prudent and is generally approved by the minority nationalities. We focus on fighting against Han chauvinism. We also oppose local nationalism, but it usually isn’t the focus." On December 26 of the same year, the CPC Central Committee issued guidelines on further carrying out checks on the work of the United Front and the implementation of ethnic policies, requiring thorough inspections, which should never be hastily concluded. The following year, Mao Zedong once again emphasized the importance of properly handling the relationship between the Han nationality and minority nationalities in "On the Correct Handling of Contradictions Among the People". This round of inspection lasted from mid-1956 to the end of July 1957. The lasted more than a year the and majority of cadres and people received education on the Party's ethnic policies, which held historic significance for the proper implementation of ethnic policies and the healthy development of various undertakings in minority regions. The Eighth National Congress also paid high attention to ethnic issues in socialist construction. Liu Shaoqi pointed out in his political report: "Properly addressing the issues of minority nationalities is a major task in our national work. We must make greater efforts to help the progress of minority nationalities in terms of economy and culture, enabling them to play an active role in the cause of socialist construction." The report also stressed that the key to helping minority nationalities grow into modern ones lies in developing modern industry in their regions. Efforts should be made to build new industrial bases and cultivate their worker class, scientific and technical personnel, and management personnel of enterprises. To adapt to the development of the situation and implement the route of the Eighth National Congress, the United Front Work Department of the CPC Central Committee drafted the "Outline of National Minority Work Planning from 1956 to 1967 (Draft)," which outlined the blueprint for the economic and cultural construction of minority regions.
IV. Important Developments in the Ideation and Theory of Governing Party Building Related to the 8th Congress
After the basic completion of socialist transformation, the Party’s own conditions and historical positioning also underwent significant changes. The Party's ruling status has been greatly consolidated, the scale of party members, and party organizations has made substantial progress, and the Party is facing the task and goal of comprehensively building socialism. This has brought new topics to party construction, and the Party has faced new historical tests. The high attention to strengthening the construction of the ruling party and the exploration of the theory of ruling party construction around the Eighth National Congress holds an important historical position in the history of party construction and has made outstanding contributions to promoting the historical process of Sinicization of Marxism.
1. The Communist Party of China is the Core Force in Leading the Construction of Socialism
The Eighth National Congress of the Communist Party of China (CPC) stressed that the CPC is the core force leading the socialist construction endeavor, and the building of socialism must adhere to the leadership of the Party. The preamble of the Party Constitution adopted at the Eighth Congress stipulates: "The Party is the highest organization of its class, and it must strive to exert its correct leadership and core role in all aspects of the national life." The political report of the Eighth Congress pointed out: "The Party should and can play a leadership role in all work in terms of thought, politics, and policy." This means that the Party's leadership does not monopolize everything; the Party's leadership needs to be concretely reflected in thought, politics, and policy. The Party should implement its political program through its members and organizations. Writing the Party's correct leadership role into the Party Constitution and important political documents of the Party marks a deepening of the Party's understanding of the leadership rights of the ruling party and is a development of Marxist party theory. To ensure the Party's correct leadership, the Eighth Congress seriously analyzed the status of the Party and the country, proposed new ideas for strengthening the construction of the ruling party based on changes in the situation and tasks.
2. Adhere to the Party's collective leadership, improve democratic centralism, strengthen the institutional construction of supervision within and outside the party, develop intra-party democracy, and oppose personality cult.
In view of the historical lessons of the Communist Party in socialist countries such as the Soviet Union on the issue of party construction and the shortcomings of the Party in its work, the Eighth Congress emphasized adherence to the principle of collective leadership of the party, improving the democratic centralism of the party, strengthening supervision over the party organization and party members (including intra-party supervision and external supervision), developing intra-party democracy, and opposing personality cult. In his political report, Liu Shaoqi emphasized the principles of the party's collective leadership and the expansion of intra-party democracy. He said that all major decisions must go through full discussion, allowing unrestricted argument of different opinions, in order to more comprehensively reflect the various opinions within and outside the party and various aspects in the process of development of objective things; resolutely accept reasonable opposing opinions or reasonable parts of opposing opinions; and cannot exclude any comrade who puts forward any opposing opinions according to normal procedures. In the "Report on the Amendments to the Party Constitution", Deng Xiaoping gave a detailed explanation of strengthening supervision within and outside the party. He said that we need to implement intra-party supervision, but also need supervision from the masses and non-party people; the key to intra-party supervision and external supervision lies in the development of democratic life of the party and the state, and promoting the good traditions of our party.
To further strengthen and improve the leadership of the party, the Eighth Congress made some relevant provisions in the party and state system. The Congress proposed that party members have the right to fully exert their creativity in their work, and when they have different opinions about the party's resolutions, they have the right to reserve and propose their own opinions to the party's leadership in addition to unconditionally executing. If the lower-level party organization believes that the resolution of the upper-level organization does not conform to the actual situation of the local area and department, it should request a change from the upper-level organization. The Eighth Congress emphasized strengthening the party and the state's supervisory work, promptly discovering and correcting various forms of bureaucracy, dealing with a variety of illegal and disorderly acts. The supervision committee should not only accept cases, but also actively inspect the members' compliance with the party's rules, communist morality, and state laws and regulations. The Eighth Congress also proposed that the frequent convening and full play of the role of the party's representative congresses at various levels is one of the basic requirements of the party's democratic centralism. The party's representative congresses at the county level and above have been changed to a standing system, holding a meeting once a year, which makes it more convenient for the committees of the party at all levels to concentrate on the masses' opinions, and turns the representative congress into the highest decision-making and supervisory body.
In Deng Xiaoping's report on amending the party constitution at the Eighth Congress, he also focused on the issues of preventing the deification of leaders and opposing personality cult. He pointed out that the situation in the Soviet Union shows how serious the consequences of deifying individuals can be; personality cult is a social phenomenon with a long history, and it will inevitably have some reflection in our party's life and social life; we must firmly oppose the act of highlight individuals and praise them, adhere to the system combining collective leadership and individual responsibility, and fully implement the principles of democracy and the mass line. The new party constitution also added the provision that "when the Central Committee deems it necessary, it can establish one honorary chairman of the Central Committee," brewing to abolish the existence of lifelong tenure of leadership positions, which is a very meaningful idea to prepare for the reform of the party and the state's leadership system.  In addition, following Mao Zedong's several proposals, the Eighth Congress Party Constitution no longer mentioned "Mao Zedong Thought" in the guiding ideology of the party. The Eighth Congress set a precedent for opposing personality cult at the party's representative congress.
3. The Ruling Party Must Persist in the Mass Line and Firmly Oppose Bureaucratism
Mao Zedong stated at the prep meeting for the Eighth National Congress: "This congress should continue to carry forth the excellent ideological and working style traditions of our Party, genuinely counteract subjectivism and sectarianism, and, in addition, also oppose bureaucratism." The Eighth Congress designated the implementation of the Party's mass line as a historical task that must be earnestly resolved by the ruling party. In the Party Constitution report, Deng Xiaoping, in relation with the new situations and tasks faced by the ruling party, profoundly and systematically expounded the important viewpoint that the mass line is the fundamental line of the Party. He pointed out that our Party was born, grew, strengthened, and matured in close connection and combat with the masses. If the mass line is correctly implemented, the Party's cause is successful; otherwise, there is a setback in the Party and the people's cause. Because our Party has become the ruling party, the danger and the potential harm of estrangement from the masses have greatly increased. The existence of bureaucratism indicates that the Party's mass line has not been fully implemented and executed within our Party. We must consistently struggle against these bureaucratism phenomena that distance themselves from the masses. We should also see that bureaucratism is a byproduct of the long period of exploitative class rule in human history and has far-reaching influence in social-political life. Hence, implementing the mass line and overcoming bureaucratism is also a long-term struggle. Deng Xiaoping also emphasized that what distinguishes our Party from any other political party is its dedication to serving the people wholeheartedly and maintaining close ties with the masses. The Communists' advanced nature is defined by, "it's the wholehearted servant of the people, it reflects the interests and will of the people, and it strives to help people organize themselves and fight for their own interests and will."
4. The Ruling Party Must Uphold Party Unity and Consolidate Party Unity
Deng Xiaoping pointed out in the amendment report to the party constitution that the unity and unity of the party is one of the most important issues in the construction of the party. The unity and unity of the party is the life of the party and the source of the party's strength. It is the sacred duty of all party members to always pay attention to maintaining the unity of the party and strengthening the unity of the party. This is not only in the interest of the party, but also in the interest of the people of the whole country. When talking about the guidelines for erring party members, he pointed out that every comrade may have shortcomings or mistakes, and every comrade needs others' help, and the party's unity is to develop such comradely help. Different approaches should be taken for the shortcomings or mistakes of party members, depending on different circumstances. Emphasis should be placed on the realistic analysis of the essence and root cause of the error, rather than punishing within the organization, which would damage the strength of the party. On the other hand, for erring comrades, to adopt an attitude of covert condoning, not to give the due punishment, and not to carry out ideological struggle, is a tendency of liberalism, which must also be resolutely opposed. In order to maintain the unity and unity of the party on the basis of Marxism-Leninism, it is necessary to greatly develop intra-party criticism and self-criticism. The new Party Constitution has also listed "maintaining the unity of the party and strengthening the unity of the party" as a duty of party members.
5. The ruling party must set higher standards for party members
Raising the standards of party members is an important political task of the party. Deng Xiaoping pointed out that the success of the party's cause, the increase of the responsibility borne by the party for the people, and the increase of the prestige of the party among the people, all require the party to set higher standards for party members. In order to raise the standards of party members, the Eighth Party Constitution has made some new provisions on the conditions of party members. The Party Constitution first requires that party members must be people who engage in labor and do not exploit the labor of others. The Party Constitution has also added many new contents to the obligations of party members, while also paying attention to protecting and expanding the democratic rights of party members and adding new contents in this regard. In addition, Deng Xiaoping also pointed out that if we make strict demands on every ordinary party member, we need to make stricter demands on the party's cadres. They have higher responsibilities than ordinary party members, and they should first learn to never separate from the masses, never complacent and not afraid of difficulties, be brave to accept criticism from below, constantly improve their work, and lead by example, patiently educate the staff they lead.
The Eighth National Congress of the Communist Party of China, based on the summarization of the experiences and lessons of the Party's construction during the period of the democratic revolution and the socialist revolution, significantly proposed the issue of the construction of the ruling party. Many new ideas, new policies, and new concepts were put forward in the theory and practice of the construction of the ruling party, and a relatively comprehensive and systematic theory of ruling party construction was initially formed, indicating the direction for the future construction of the ruling party. This enriches and develops Mao Zedong's thoughts on party-building and is a prerequisite and guarantee for advancing the sinicization of Marxism. Such ideological recognition is, on one hand, due to the initial experience of the Party's construction under the ruling conditions gained during the previous seven years, and on the other hand, due to some prominent problems exposed in the socialist party construction in the international communist movement after the 20th Congress of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union. Based on such a foundation, the Eighth National Congress gained a deeper understanding of the construction of the ruling party.
At the same time, it is also recognized that there are historical limitations in the theory of party construction at the Eighth National Congress. For example, central leaders before and after the Congress greatly valued the criticism of bureaucracy. Still, they mainly recognized the problem from the perspective of the legacy of the old society, mainly defining bureaucracy as a style or moral issue, and not paying enough attention to systemic issues. And if such a high level of understanding cannot be achieved, the struggle against bureaucracy will not achieve its expected goal. For instance, the Eighth National Congress did not raise the enhancement of democracy within the party to a strategic level and showed a weak understanding of the construction of the rule of law. In addition, many theories and thoughts did not form concrete and operational methods and policies. For this reason, the important thoughts, theories, and policies proposed by the Eighth National Congress often fail to be implemented in practice.
V. The paradigm of sinicization of Marxism: the Doctrine of the Contradictions in Socialist Society.
1. Marxist Classic Writers' Thoughts on the Contradictions in Socialist Society
Regarding the problem of contradictions in socialist society, due to historical limitations, Marx and Engels did not directly experience it. Therefore, they didn't indulge in utopian fantasies detached from objective reality about the resolution of contradictions in the relations of production and productive forces, and superstructure and economic base in the socialist and communist social stages. Although they also pointed out that the "big three differences" still existed between workers and peasants, between urban and rural areas, and between the mental and the physical workers. These differences are essentially contradictions, but they did not clearly and systematically put forward the problem of contradictions in socialist society.
In 1920, Lenin pointed out the method of observing and studying this problem in his annotations and comments on Bukharin's book "Economics of the Transitional Period": "Antagonism and contradiction are not the same thing. Under socialism, antagonisms will disappear, but contradictions will remain." This view affirmed that there still exists another type of contradiction in the socialist society that is fundamentally different from the previous class contradictions, that is, non-antagonistic contradictions, and it distinguished "antagonism" and "contradiction" as two different categories from a philosophical perspective. This developed the Marxist and Engels' socialist theories. However, Lenin didn't have enough time to make a detailed and in-depth investigation and analysis of the contradictions in socialist society.
For a long period, Stalin denied the existence of contradictions within a socialist society, only discussing the "perfect fit" of production relations and productiveness as well as political and moral "harmony". In 1938, in his article "On Dialectical and Historical Materialism", Stalin wrote that under the socialist system, "production relations and productiveness are perfectly matched because the social nature of the production process is fortified by the public ownership of the means of production", "the socialist national economy of the USSR is an example where the production relations are perfectly suited to the nature of productivity. In Soviet Union, there are no economic crises, nor any destruction of productivity." As the practice of socialist construction developed, in 1952, Stalin began to acknowledge the contradiction between production relations and productivity in his book "Problems of Soviet Socialism". He said, "The phrase 'perfect fit' should not be understood in an absolute sense... it should be understood in the normal sense that there is no conflict between production relations and productivity under the socialist system, and society can make outmoded production relations fit the nature of the productivity"; "Even under the socialist system, there will be backward inert forces that do not realize the need for changes in production relations, but these forces are not difficult to overcome and will not lead to conflicts". In general, from the classic Marxist authors, the contradiction problem in socialist society is gradually acknowledged and a major breakthrough is brewing.
2. Understanding of the contradictions in socialist society by the leading members of the party after the founding of New China.
Regarding the problem of contradictions under socialism, the founding leaders of the Party in New China have made some important considerations and understandings. In the first half of 1951, Liu Shaoqi already discussed this in his article "On the Public and Private contradictions in State-Owned Factories". He observed that "when the state led by the working class is established, and the factories are nationalized and democratic reforms are carried out","There are no longer class confrontations and exploitative relationships within our state-owned factories, and the relationship between the factory management and the workers fundamentally becomes a camaraderie relationship"."Are there no class contradictions within state-owned factories, but are there other contradictions?" After affirming this question, he pointed out: "The basic contradiction within state-owned factories" is the contradiction between the state-owned factory management and the working masses, the public-private contradiction within state-owned factories. This contradiction is completely different from the class confrontations in capitalist factories, it is a fundamentally non-antagonistic contradiction that can be reconciled and should be reconciled". At that time, leading comrades like Li Lisan, Deng Zihui, also elaborated these ideas.
The 20th Congress of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union and the massive shock it caused in the international communist movement led Mao Zedong to further recognize that various contradictions still exist under the socialist system. Whether these contradictions among the people and between us and our enemies can be correctly distinguished and handled relates to the success or failure of socialist construction and to the survival of the people's power. The Chinese Communist Party began to think and study more deeply about the contradiction issues in socialist society. "On the Ten Major Relationships" is an important work by Mao Zedong, who, taking the Soviet Union as a mirror and starting with China's national conditions, discussed the contradiction issues in socialist society. He pointed out that the "ten relationships" in socialist construction are all contradictions. The world is made up of contradictions. Without contradictions, there would be no world. Our task is to handle these contradictions appropriately. These ten issues already contain the idea that the contradictions in a socialist society can be divided into two categories, and in fact, methods have been put forward to handle the two different types of contradictions: distinguish friends from enemies in contradictions between us and our enemies, and distinguish right from wrong in internal contradictions among the people. "On the Ten Major Relationships" has an important historical position in the formation and development process of the Chinese Communist Party's doctrine of two types of contradictions and is an important achievement in the development of the theory of contradictions in socialist society.
In April and December of 1956, the Editorial Department of the People's Daily, following the spirit of the Politburo's expanded meeting, successively wrote "On the Historical Experience of the Dictatorship of the Proletariat" and "Further Discussion on the Historical Experience of the Dictatorship of the Proletariat". Starting from summarizing the historical experience of the international dictatorship of the proletariat, for the first time, these articles explicitly put forward the viewpoint that contradictions still exist in socialist society, criticized the metaphysical viewpoint denying contradictions, put forward the concept of "two different types of contradictions", and pointed out that the contradictions between the relations of production and productive forces and between the economic base and superstructure are the basic contradictions applicable to all societies. On December 4, 1956, Mao Zedong talked about the problem of two types of contradictions, especially contradictions among the people, in a letter. He said: "Society is always full of contradictions. Even socialist and communist societies are like this, the nature of the contradictions is just different from those in class societies. Since there are contradictions, they should be revealed and resolved. There are two ways to reveal and resolve them: one is between us and our enemies (referring to sabotage agents), and the other is among the people (including within parties and between parties). The former is dealt with by repression, and the latter by persuasion, or criticism. The class contradictions within our country have essentially been resolved (meaning they are not completely resolved and will continue to exist in the realm of ideology for a long period of time. In addition, a few saboteurs will also exist for a long time), all people should unite. However, our internal problems will continue to emerge, and the way to solve them is to start from unity, through criticism and self-criticism, to achieve unity."
In the autumn and winter of 1956, facing the "incident-making" trend that had emerged in some parts of the country, Mao Zedong pointed out that we should take a positive attitude towards incident-making. The reasons were "some are due to the existence of bureaucracy and subjectivism in the leadership, making mistakes in politics or economics, and others are not about the policies being wrong, but the way they are implemented being too rigid. Another factor is the existence of counter-revolutionaries and bad elements." Ultimately, this is a reflection of the contradictions between us and our enemies and among the people in socialist society, many of which are contradictions among the people. Mao Zedong emphasized: "In the future, all matters involving the contradictions among the people, and within the party, should be resolved by the method of rectification, criticism and self-criticism, not by force." He also pointed out: During the revolutionary period, everyone concentrated on dealing with class struggle, and the contradictions among the people were not prominent. In the construction period, a part of class struggle was left, and what was largely demonstrated were the struggles among the people. We lack experience in dealing with this, and it is worth studying. This is a science. This shows that correctly understanding and handling various contradictions in China's socialist society has become a major task that the Party Central Committee has been considering during this period.
3. "On the Correct Handling of Contradictions Among the People"
In February 1957, Mao Zedong delivered a speech titled "How to Handle Contradictions Among the People" at the 11th session of the highest state council, systematically clarifying the issue of strictly distinguishing the two types of contradictions in socialist society and correctly handling the contradictions among the people. This speech was later reorganized, revised, and supplemented, absorbing the thoughts of Liu Shaoqi, Zhou Enlai, and others on this issue, and was publicly released in June of the same year under the title "On the Correct Handling of Contradictions Among the People". In this work of significant theoretical and practical significance, Mao Zedong conducted in-depth research and interpretation of the contradiction issue in socialist society, forming a theoretical system that is systematic and original. This is a continuation and development of the CCP's Eighth Route Army line, which represents the theoretical height achieved by the sinicization of Marxism during this stage, and it is a concentrated embodiment of the achievements of the sinicization of Marxism around 1956.
Mao Zedong examined the contradictions in socialist society from the height of the fundamental law of the unity of opposites, which is universally present in nature, human society, and people's thinking. He pointed out: "In socialist society, the basic contradictions are still those between the relations of production and the productive forces, and between the superstructure and the economic base. However, these contradictions in socialist society are fundamentally different in nature and situation from the contradictions between the relations of production and the productive forces, and between the superstructure and the economic base, in the old society." This fundamental difference lies in the fact that the contradictions of the old society, such as "the contradictions of capitalist society, manifest in intense antagonisms and conflicts, manifest in intense class struggles, these contradictions cannot be resolved by the capitalist system itself, but only by the socialist revolution. The contradictions in socialist society are another matter, on the contrary, they are not antagonistic contradictions, they can be continuously resolved through the socialist system itself." Mao Zedong believed that socialist production relations have been established, they are suitable for the development of productive forces; but at the same time, they are also very imperfect, these imperfect aspects are contradictory to the development of productive forces. In addition to the situation where the relations of production and the development of productive forces are both suitable and contradictory, there are also situations where the superstructure and the economic base are both suitable and contradictory. These contradictions will lead to "new contradictions that need to be resolved by people" after they are solved. This has for the first time in the history of the development of Marxism established a systematic basic contradiction theory of socialism, and elevated the understanding of the law of development of socialist society to a new theoretical height.
Based on this, "On the Correct Handling of Contradictions Among the People" has established a relatively complete doctrine and theory on the two classes of contradictions in a socialist society, stating that the correct handling of contradictions among the people should be the main theme of the nation's political life. Mao Zedong pointed out that two types of social contradictions exist within socialist societies: contradictions between enemies and the people, and contradictions among the people. The former is antagonistic while the latter, which includes the contradictions among the working people and between the exploited and exploiting classes, is both non-antagonistic and antagonistic. Under socialism, the majority of contradictions are internal to the people. It is important to correctly identify and handle these two different types of contradictions. To address contradictions among the people, democratic methods, "unity-criticism-unity" methods, and self-education should be employed. It is necessary to prevent internal contradictions from escalating into contradictions between the enemies and the people, and also to promote contradictions between the enemies and the people to transform into internal contradictions. Mao further asserted that the correct handling of contradictions should be the main theme of the nation's political life, advocating to "create a political atmosphere that combines centralization and democracy, discipline and freedom, unified wills and individual comfort, and lively vigor". This maximizes all positive internal and external party elements. Drawing upon the historical experiences of the united front, especially the active roles of the national bourgeoisie and democratic parties in socialist transformation, Mao proposed that "the contradiction between the working class and the national bourgeoisie is an internal contradiction" and "the class struggle between the working class and the national bourgeoisie generally belongs to the class struggle within the people". This established a new theoretical basis for maintaining and developing the united front of people's democracy under socialism. This was a great theoretical and practical innovation by Mao and the Chinese Communist Party, resulting from the combination of Marxist fundamentals and China's practical reality.
Of course, due to the limitations of the era, there are still some imperfections in the theory of correctly handling contradictions among the people. Nevertheless, the development of the doctrine on contradictions in a socialist society is a concentrated manifestation of Marxism's integration with China's actual conditions after China's transition to socialism. It is a major breakthrough for the Chinese Communist Party in Marxism and traditional socialist theory, greatly promoting the historical process of Sinicization of Marxism.
Around 1956, under the guidance of Marxism and by earnestly summarizing the experiences and lessons of the international communist movement, the Chinese Communist Party made some important explorations in many aspects of governing the country, with an innovative spirit keeping pace with the times. Many new ideas and plans were proposed which differed from the traditional socialist model. Their profound new content, striking national characteristics, and clear Sinicizing scent of Marxism, mark an important milestone in the Sinicization of Marxism after the party began the comprehensive construction of socialism. This was a splendorous chapter in the history of the party's ideological development and an important milestone in Mao Zedong Thought's developmental history. The comprehensive exploration of socialism construction in China around the Eighth National Congress marked the historical starting point of the second great revolution led by the Chinese Communist Party.
However, due to the constraints of historical and era conditions, the Sinicization of Marxism during this period was inevitably subject to various restrictions. Some of these thoughts and theories are still not perfect, some have certain theoretical defects and internal contradictions, some are correct but have not yet gained universal consensus, have not risen to the guiding ideology of the whole party, and some are often still more manifested in the ideological and theoretical level, lacking specific operable policies and methods. These era limitations and theoretical deficiencies are the deep reasons for the failure to achieve the "second leap" of the Sinicization of Marxism in the 1950s and 1960s.

Chapter Six The Deviation of the Sinicization of Marxism from the Correct Direction
Around the time of the Eighth Congress of the Party, based on a relatively accurate understanding of the national conditions and summarizing the lessons from the Soviet Union, our country's just-starting comprehensive socialist construction achieved great achievements. The first generation of party leadership also made many important achievements in understanding the construction of socialism in China. However, it's regrettable and hard to understand that such good development momentum was interrupted only half a year later due to the anti-rightist struggle, and the Sinicization of Marxism also went astray due to this.
At the beginning of the comprehensive socialist construction, regardless of whether we realize it or how deep our understanding is, we have to face several crucial basic questions, including "what is socialism?", the main contradictions in socialism, and the question of how to build socialism. The first question seems to be a solved one yet remains superficially understood by many socialist countries. The second question is not a big problem for many countries. They feel reluctant to admit that there are still contradictions in socialist countries according to Marxist classical theories and their own paths to seize power and historical traditions, let alone regard class contradictions as the main contradiction in socialism. Even in a country like ours, which has a long tradition of intense class struggle, there was basically no dispute about the understanding of the main contradiction in the socialistic conception before and at the Eighth Congress. Because of this, during the "Cultural Revolution", criticism against the "revisionism within the party" that made the wrong main contradiction at the Eighth Congress was repeatedly made, and class struggle was praised as a major development of Marxism. The third question is based on the first two, but it focuses more on practice and operation. In the orthodox Stalinist model, the socialist economy is a highly centralized planned economy dominated by administrative power with minimal market force. This model seems to be in line with Marx's conception. It greatly weakens the role of the law of value and is easily mobilized and arranged to exceed normal development speed under administrative power and subjective will, especially suitable for a catch-up strategy with heavy cost. This development strategy gradually became the object of socialist reform in the 1950s. Thus, when our country began comprehensive socialist construction, we had to face significant choices: follow tradition or reform? From around 1956, it is clear that the Party Central Committee and Mao Zedong recognized the need to reform traditional models. There were not many disagreements within the central leadership on what to reform and how to reform since some deep-seated contradictions were not revealed.
After the anti-rightist struggle in 1957, Mao Zedong and the Party Central Committee gradually deviated from some correct understandings of socialism obtained before and after the Eighth Congress, and the understanding of the laws of socialist development gradually diverged from Marxism: serious biases in understanding the main contradiction of socialism led to the mistake of expanding class struggle; on the scale and pace of economic construction, left-wing errors of impatience and reckless advancement were made, replacing the correct policies and guidelines of the Eighth Congress with the so-called "three red flags". The party's exploration of the socialist path in China suffered significant setbacks, and the Sinicization of Marxism deviated from the correct direction. From the end of 1958 to the first half of 1959, the Party Central Committee led by Mao Zedong began to correct the left-wing mistakes that had been discovered, and made some significant progress, but due to the limitations of correcting the "left", serious twists and turns occurred after the Lushan Meeting.
I. The Rectification Movement Deviating from Its Original Intention
1. The Original Intention of the Rectification Movement
Starting in the second half of 1956, concurrent with the stormy situation in the international communist movement, some tense situations also appeared in our country's economic and political life. There were dozens of strikes across the country, involving over ten thousand people, some incidents of rural withdrawals from collective farms, and dozens of student strikes. At the beginning, Mao Zedong and the Central Committee maintained a fairly clear understanding. Mao Zedong believed that the incidents caused by a minority were mainly due to the existence of bureaucratism and subjectivism in the leadership and mistakes made in political or economic policies; some were due to inappropriate work methods, too rigid. He thought, "There are now some people who seem to have won the world, who can sleep without worries, who can act recklessly. Such people, opposed by the masses, hit with stones, hit with hoes, I think they deserve it, I welcome it most. And sometimes, only beating can solve the problem. Students take to the streets, workers take to the streets, whenever such things happen, comrades should see them as good things." He also proposed: "When amending the constitution later, I advocate for the freedom to strike, to allow workers to strike. This will help resolve contradictions between the state, factory managers and the masses." He earnestly warned the majority of cadres and party members: "We must be vigilant, do not foster a bureaucratic style, do not form an aristocratic class detached from the people. Whoever commits bureaucratism, does not solve the problems of the masses, scolds the masses, suppresses the masses, and always does not change, the masses have reason to remove him. I say it's good to remove, should be removed." Therefore, the solution to incidents caused by a minority is first to overcome bureaucratism and expand democracy. Based on this understanding, the Central Committee decided to launch a rectification movement across the party in order to overcome some of the problems it had and make the party adapt to the requirements of the new tasks of building socialism in all aspects.
The task of internal party rectification was essentially proposed by the Eighth National Congress. In his opening speech at the Eighth Congress, Mao Zedong, tying in the Yan'an Rectification Movement, pointed out that thoughts and styles of subjectivism, bureaucracy, and sectarianism still exist among many of our comrades, which are detrimental to the unity within the party and between the party and the populace. We must overcome these severe shortcomings in order to carry out the great construction work ahead. At the Second Plenary Session of the Eighth Congress held in November 1956, using the events in Poland and Hungary as a warning, it emphasized that while taking into account national construction and people's livelihood, we must be vigilant against and prevent cadres from becoming special and detached from the masses, and decided to embark on a party-wide rectification in 1957, preparations for which should begin. The Central Committee pointed out that rectification has proven effective in the history of the Chinese Communist Party, and that future issues within the people and the party should be resolved by criticism and self-criticism rather than by force. With this approach, we can unite the people and mobilize all positive elements in the population of 600 million to build socialism.
On March 8th, 1957, Mao Zedong, in a conversation, once again mentioned the need for the party to carry out a rectification movement. He said, "The Central Committee needs to hold a meeting, issue a directive, prepare this year and start next year. ‘Rectification, rectification of subjectivism, focusing on dogmatism; rectification of sectarianism, they always want to monopolize, they always feel that the population of 600 million is too much, it would be better if there were fewer; rectification of bureaucracy, it has been many years since the last rectification.’" On the 12th, Mao Zedong, in his speech at the National Propaganda Work Conference, spoke specifically on rectification. He said, “The reform and construction of China depend on our leadership. If we can improve our work style, we will become more proactive in our work, our abilities will be greater, and our work will be better." He declared that rectification should start within the party, and those outside the party should join voluntarily, criticize subjectivism (including dogmatism), sectarianism and bureaucracy, overcome errors, and create an environment and habit for free criticism. The method of rectification, like in Yan'an, is to study the documents, criticize the mistakes, encourage grassroots democracy, and oppose the method of killing with one stick.
After the communication of Mao Zedong's "On the Correct Handling of Contradictions among the People" and the "Speech at the National Propaganda Work Conference" inside and outside the party, it received a strong response. The Central Committee issued consecutive notices ordering party organizations at all levels to take effective measures to strengthen the relationship between the party and the masses. The "Instruction on Spreading the National Propaganda Conference," issued by the Central Committee on March 16th, pointed out that, "Currently, there are some abnormal conditions in the relationship between the party and intellectuals. The reasons for these abnormal conditions are the two anti-Marxism-Leninism ideologies in the party, namely dogmatism and rightist opportunism. Dogmatism brutally forces intellectuals, deals with ideological issues, and studies the issue of Marxism, rather than persuading, reasoning, and voluntarily." "Right-wing opportunism, on the other hand, denies all of our past work, only sees shortcomings, doesn't see achievements, thus losing confidence, and describes the great revolutionary and construction cause as pitch dark." Therefore, "we must oppose these two erroneous ideas inside and outside the party." Regarding the workers' strikes, student strikes, and mass demonstrations that occurred at the time, the Central Committee issued consecutive "Instructions on the Issue of Strikes and Class Boycotts," and "Notices on Studying Several Important Issues concerning the Working Class." The Central Committee believes that: "The occurrence of these events is primarily due to our poor work, especially the bureaucracy of the leaders." To prevent such things from happening, the fundamental method is to adjust the problems in the internal relations of the socialist society at any time, "first of all, we must overcome bureaucracy."
During this period, Mao Zedong and other central leading figures visited various parts of the country separately, explaining to party members and non-party cadres about the correct handling of contradictions among the people. This was essentially an ideological mobilization for the rectification movement. In March, Mao Zedong pointed out in his speeches at cadre meetings in Shandong and Shanghai: the rectification should develop the tradition of our party's hard struggle; this rectification is expected to make considerable progress in our Party. In terms of the guideline "Let a Hundred Flowers Bloom and a Hundred Schools of Thought Contend", Mao Zedong emphasized: this is not only the basic guideline for the development of science and art, but also the basic guideline for handling contradictions among the people under new historical conditions. "With the current policy, literature and art, science and technology will prosper, the Party will remain vigorous, the people's cause will flourish, and China will become a powerful and likable country." On the shift of the party's work focus, he said: "Class struggle has basically ended, where should our task be transferred to? It should be transferred to construction, leading the entire society, leading six hundred million people, struggling with nature, and making China prosperous, turning it into an industrial country." He pointed out: the 20th century, the first half of the century for revolution, the second half for construction; from now until the mid-21st century, China will be built in 100 years.
Liu Shaoqi also explained in an internal talk about what the rectification focuses on: try to see if you treat contradictions among the people as contradictions between the enemy and us? Are you treating the contradiction between the enemy and us as contradictions among the people? Are you not starting from the interests of the six hundred million people and indulging in sectarianism? This is what the rectification targets. He especially emphasized the significance of opposing bureaucracy: a large amount of contradictions among the people are manifested in the contradictions between the masses and the leadership, or more precisely, in the contradictions between bureaucratic tendencies in leadership and the masses. "If there is no bureaucracy in leadership, the problems can be solved and the contradictions will be eased." He also pointed out that some areas are beginning to show signs of a grading system, which is a feudal system and should be abolished.
2. From Rectification to Anti-Rightist Movement
On April 27, 1957, the Central Committee issued the "Directive on the Rectification Movement" (hereinafter referred to as the "Directive"). The "Directive" stated: Since the Party has already been in a ruling position nationwide and has been supported by the broad masses, many comrades are prone to handling problems through simple administrative orders. Some members who were not firm in their positions were susceptible to the remnants of the old societal style, forming a privileged mindset, and even treated the masses with suppressive methods. Therefore, it is necessary to conduct a widespread and in-depth campaign against bureaucratism, sectarianism, and subjectivism throughout the party. The "Directive" stipulates: The guiding ideology of the Rectification Movement is two reports made by Mao Zedong in February at the expanded Highest State Affairs Conference and in March at the Propaganda Work Conference convened by the Central Committee. The theme of the Rectification Movement is to correctly handle contradictions among the people. The "Directive" said, “The dissemination of these two reports led to heated discussions. As far as our party is concerned, this is the actual start of the Rectification Movement "; this Rectification Movement should be both a serious and gentle ideological movement, ideally a balanced movement of criticism and self-criticism, and should generally take the form of individual talks, small forums, and group meetings, instead of hosting large critiquing conferences or struggle conferences. Mao Zedong later pointed out that the party hopes to achieve the following goals through rectification: creating a political atmosphere that is both centralized and democratic, disciplined and free, unified in will and comfortable in personal feelings, lively and active. On April 30, Mao Zedong said in a conversation with the leaders of various democratic parties and representatives of non-party democrats: I have thought about rectification for several years, but I could not find an opportunity. Now I have found it. An atmosphere conducive to criticism has been created, and this atmosphere should continue. It is more natural to propose rectification at this time. The overall theme of the rectification is to deal with contradictions among the people, oppose subjectivism, sectarianism, and bureaucratism. He hoped that through the criticism of people from all walks of life, the work style of the party could truly be improved, and he also envisioned improving certain specific leadership systems in the party to properly resolve contradictions between the party and democratic parties, and the party and intellectuals in practical work.
On May 1, the "People's Daily" announced the rectification directive of the Central Committee of the Party, marking the commencement of the Party's rectification. Following the launch of the rectification movement, critiques on the Party's work were extensively and intensively presented by various individuals during panel discussions and in the media. Besides the numerous criticisms related to bureaucratic, sectarian, and subjective tendencies within the Party's working style, some comments touched on fundamental evaluations of the Party's leadership, socialist system, successive political movements since the founding of New China, and the Party's domestic and foreign policies. From mid to late May and early June, there were expressions of skepticism and denial of the Communist Party's leadership and the socialist system in newspapers and magazines, which aroused the vigilance of the Central Committee and Mao Zedong. Particularly following the Party's transition from discouraging to encouraging open criticism and wide discussions, supported by Dazibao (big-character posters), an intensified nationwide political tension and instability ensued. Although the Central Committee and Mao acknowledged many positive criticisms, they were caught off-guard by those involving major political issues, or those expressed in an overly heated way, leading to an overreaction. Consequently, they made an overly severe assessment of the domestic and international class struggle, quickly morphing the rectification campaign into an anti-rightist struggle. The Central Committee viewed this as a ferocious attack on the Party and socialism by rightists, and believed that they could only carry on with the rectification campaign successfully after eliminating the rightist's aggression. They saw the conflict between the Party, the people, and the rightists as antagonistic, irreconcilable, a mere matter of survival, and the struggle against the rightists as a fierce defense of socialism; stating that "unless this war is won, socialism cannot be built, and elements of the 'Hungarian Incident' may emerge". Following this guiding principle, the focus of the campaign shifted from managing internal conflicts among the people to fighting against the enemy, from Party rectification to countering rightists, essentially turning into a "massive ideological and political war" from a calm and gentle campaign. The anti-rightist struggle maintained the manner of mass political campaigns, and the lack of careful control over the abrupt progress of the struggle resulted in its severe escalation. More seriously, Party leaders, particularly Mao Zedong, revised the Eighth Congress of the Party's comparatively accurate analysis of the primary contradictions in our society, classes, and class struggles, and gradually formed an expanded theory of class struggle. Mao emphasized: "Don’t underestimate the significance of this criticism of the bourgeoisie rightists. It is a great socialist revolution on the political and ideological front. The socialist revolution on the economic front (on the ownership of production materials) in 1956 alone is incomplete and unstable, as proven by the 'Hungarian Incident'. We must have a thorough socialist revolution on the political and ideological front."
The initial intention of the Rectification Movement in 1957 was a beneficial attempt and practice led by the Communist Party Central Committee and Mao Zedong in the face of historical situations involving massive social transformations and upheavals. Guided by the theory of properly handling internal contradictions among the people, the movement was carried out in line with the shift in the focus of the Party's work, aiming to comprehensively strengthen and improve the construction of the party. All these are part of the inheritance and development of the Eighth Route, representing new efforts to explore China's own socialist path. However, due to historical and practical limitations, the Rectification Movement, originally initiated with good intentions, quickly deviated from the correct direction. In a broader sense, the issue of bureaucracy is a long-standing phenomenon that arises along with the state. As long as there is management (state management, administrative management, business management, etc.) and hierarchical obedience, its existence is difficult to avoid. Modern management, political science, and sociology often explain its causes, manifestations, and characteristics by referring to it as a "bureaucratic system". Bureaucracy and bureaucratism are not primarily moral or work style issues, and they are not just a legacy issue of the "old society"; they are more of a systemic issue. At that time, socialist countries practiced highly centralised planning systems which weakened the rule of value and the role of economic levers. Economic construction was carried out through a strict top-down administrative mobilization system, emphasising high-intensity administrative power to lead modernization processes. This inevitably strengthened top-down hierarchical obedience, providing systematic resources and space for the rise of bureaucratism. In the process of implementing leapfrogging strategies and at a certain stage of socialist development, the existence of such a phenomenon is unavoidable. Lenin had already noticed this issue during the early practice of socialism and pointed out its harm to socialism. He correctly stated that bureaucracy should be restricted and eliminated by broadening the mass's participation in state management so that everyone becomes a bureaucrat, and therefore no one is a bureaucrat. During the mid-1950s socialist reform, leaders of the Yugoslavian party and some Eastern European countries also raised this issue. However, their perceptions of these problems in young socialist countries were initial and far from a consensus. Recognising and solving this problem could only be expected to develop Marxist theory, which could only be scientifically resolved in the process of advancing the modernisation of Marxism. Obviously, during the Rectification in 1957, the understanding of bureaucracy had not yet deepened to the level of system reform. Instead, bureaucracy was more often treated as a moral issue, a work style issue, a leftover issue from the old society, and even a class struggle issue. While rectification is crucial, solving the system problem is even more important. And rectification should not adopt methods such as "The Four Olds" that intensify conflicts and disrupt social stability.
On the one hand, there was an urgent need to do a good job in party building, and on the other hand, due to the constraints of the times, they went astray. On the one hand, new problems were proposed in the new situation and tried to solve them effectively, and on the other hand, inappropriate ways and methods were used. On the one hand, they tried to solve various existing social contradictions, and on the other hand, they further intensified the contradictions, and then used an expanded method to deal with them. The negative consequences of this divergence are severe. It not only severely damaged China's political and economic development, but also severely disrupted the second leap of the Sinicization of Marxism in theory.
3. The Anti-Rightist Movement and the Misunderstanding of the Main Contradictions in Socialism
The over-expanded Anti-Rightist campaign resulted in long-lasting and serious consequences. The Rectification Movement, originally envisioned to correctly handle internal contradictions among the people, ended with a severe confusion of two types of contradictions. It was hoped that the Rectification Movement would create a lively political scene, but the result was a severe blow to the democratic life within and outside the party. Some effective attempts in economic life, such as beneficial explorations in agricultural cooperatives that were suitable for the productive conditions of the time, new ideas for opening up a bit of private economy were either criticized or abandoned. Criticisms against rash advances in economic development speed were treated as rightist comments and were also criticized. In terms of political thought and cultural life, the implementation of the two major guidelines of building socialist democracy and legal system, promoting a hundred flowers bloom and a hundred schools of thought contend, and "long-term coexistence and mutual supervision," all suffered great damage.
However, the most serious consequence of the over-expanded Anti-Rightist campaign was the change of the diagnosis on the main contradiction of our society made at the Eighth Party Congress through the third Plenary Session of the Eighth Central Committee and the Second Session of the Eighth Party Congress.
After the war, with the emergence of the socialist camp and the development of the international communist movement, how to understand and deal with social contradictions and the primary contradictions in a socialist society increasingly stood out as a prominent issue to the ruling parties of socialist countries. The Eighth Party Congress timely and scientifically answered it. It correctly pointed out the new main contradiction and stated the primary task of the country was to "protect and develop productive forces" under new productive relationships, and the entire party should concentrate resources on the development of productive forces. This was the most critical theoretical contribution of the Eighth Party Congress and also became a consensus within the entire party.
However, the Eighth National Congress's characterization of the main contradiction is somewhat inaccurate, still carrying some limitations when dealing with issues of class and class struggle. When the Eighth Congress was convened, the socialist transformation was essentially complete and should have declared the end of the transition period, yet the Eighth Congress failed to clearly articulate when the transition period ended or would end and, instead, estimated that the transition period would be long. The political report of the Eighth Congress no longer understood the transition period as "from the establishment of the People's Republic of China to the basic completion of socialist transformation", but as "from the establishment of the People's Republic of China to the realization of industrialization." The lower limit of the transition period was extended to the end of the third Five-Year Plan, or 1967. Extending the tenure of the transition period could lead to an exaggeration of contradictions and struggles between workers and the bourgeoisie, and between the socialist and capitalist paths. This left some foreshadowing for the change in the understanding of the main contradiction in socialism and the expansion of class struggle, providing a theoretical basis.
Mao Zedong noticed the loophole in this theorization of the Eighth Congress resolution and put forward some critiques, but only in terms of "semantic flu", not opposing the main spirit of the Eighth Congress resolution concerning the main contradiction. With changes in the domestic and international situations, Mao Zedong also occasionally showed some doubts and hesitations towards this assertion; however, his understanding of the main domestic contradiction remained largely correct for most of the time after the Eighth Congress. In November 1956, Mao Zedong affirmed during the Second Plenum of the Eighth Congress that "the class contradictions within our country have been essentially resolved." In December of the same year, he reaffirmed in a letter to Huang Yanpei that “the class contradictions within our country have basically been resolved." During the writing and propaganda regarding the issue of contradictions among the people in early 1957, he also repeatedly emphasized the view that "class struggle is essentially over."
Shortly after the Eighth Congress, events in Poland and Hungary happened successively. The CCP Central Committee and Mao Zedong, on one hand, continued to follow the exploratory thinking after the 20th Congress of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, further proposed the doctrine of correctly dealing with two types of contradictions in socialist society, and strived to prevent such incidents from happening in China. On the other hand, Mao Zedong believed that the reason why the events in Poland and Hungary occurred was due to poor handling of class struggle, and he further emphasized the role of class struggle in socialist society, shifting the focus of criticism from dogmatism towards revisionism. Based on this understanding of contradiction, shortly after the beginning of the rectification movement, Mao Zedong made a severe and unrealistic estimate of the domestic class struggle situation, thus launching the Anti-Rightist struggle. An important consequence of the expandation of the Anti-Rightist struggle was that the third plenary session of the Eighth Congress changed the correct judgment on China's social class situation and main contradiction made at the first session of the Eighth Congress. It then believed that: "The contradiction between the proletariat and the bourgeoisie, and the contradiction between the socialist road and the capitalist road, undoubtedly, are the main contradictions of our current society."
The 2nd Assembly of the 8th Congress held in May 1958 further promoted the development of the theory of class struggle expansion. The conference asserted, "The rectification movement and the experience of the anti-rightist struggle once again proved that throughout the transition period, that is, before the completion of socialist society, the struggle between the proletariat and the bourgeoisie, and the struggle between socialism and capitalism, remain the main contradiction within our country." The deviation from the main line of the 8th Congress on the main contradiction in socialist society profoundly and long-lasting effects the process of our country's socialist construction. It becomes the basic cause of the subsequent damage to socialist democracy, the damage to the construction of the ruling party, the frequent launching of political movements, and the intensification of class struggle expansion. It is the basis for the various mistakes that occurred in the next 20 years. 
However, it should also be noted that the major revision of the main contradiction by the Third Plenary Session of the Eighth Central Committee and the Second Assembly of the 8th Congress was only preliminary. In other words, it was far from the point of "taking the class struggle as the guideline" after the Tenth Plenary Session of the Eighth Central Committee. The most obvious sign here is that while the 8th Congress line was amended at the time, placing class struggle as the main contradiction, central leadership and Mao Zedong instead emphasized igniting a high tide of production and construction, the need for a "great leap forward" on the production front, “surpassing Britain and catching up with America", and so on. That is to say, the main contradiction and the main task are not the same, which is somewhat similar to the relationship between the main contradiction (then called the basic contradiction) and the central work for a period of time after the Second Plenum of the Seventh Central Committee in 1949. At the Nanning Conference held in January 1958, Mao Zedong put forward the idea of "continuous revolution". He believed that a basic victory of socialist revolution was achieved in terms of the ownership of means of production in 1956, and that the "anti-right" rectification in 1957 had obtained the basic victory of socialist revolution on both political and ideological fronts. Now we should achieve a technical revolution and shift the focus of the party's work to the technical revolution. This idea of shifting the focus of work is the continuation of the correct strategic thinking of transitioning from revolution to construction, which was repeatedly emphasized before and after the First Assembly of the Eighth Congress. However, it could not reconcile with the main contradiction determined by the Third Plenary Session of the Eighth Congress.
This serious contradiction indicates that the understanding of class struggle as the main contradiction was still preliminary and unstable at the time. On the surface, there seemed to be various possibilities for development. However, once such a main contradiction is established, it has a self-enhancing function, especially when it is combined with a highly centralized planning economic system and leadership system. Because this combination in itself can only significantly weaken socialist democracy. It is very difficult to tolerate the existence of differing opinions, and it is very difficult to tolerate the debates and equal discussions of various opinions. Accusing the other party of being bourgeois or influenced by the bourgeoisie is always the simplest and most convenient way to suppress differing opinions. The most obvious example is at the Lushan Conference in 1959. Mao Zedong easily treated the differences within the party on economic construction as the reflection of class struggle within the party, thereby extending the class struggle into the party and launching a large-scale "anti-rightist" struggle. This not only caused the development of economic mistakes to continue, but also led to furthering the mistake of expanding class struggle. If it can be said that before this the main contradiction and the main task were still in a contradictory and unstable binary state. After the Lushan Conference, this contradiction quickly diminished, and the unstable binary state gradually came to an end.
The rise of socialist reform trends in the 1950s and the emergence of intellectual liberation provided a rare historical opportunity for the Communist Party of China to break away from the Stalin model and achieve a "second combination" of Marxism and Chinese reality. However, breaking away from the old model does not necessarily mean that we can smoothly find the new correct model. Moreover, sometimes we subjectively think that we have got rid of the old model, but in fact, we have only got rid of some superficial elements and have not touched its foundation. Of course, there are difficulties in understanding this, but the most fundamental reason is the destruction of socialist democracy due to the expansion of class struggle. Once this kind of democracy is weakened, the sinicization of Marxism loses its foundation of survival. Due to mistakes on the main issues of contradiction, the party's exploration of the socialist road deviated from the correct direction, and the "second combination" of Marxism and Chinese reality also went astray.
II. "Great Leap Forward": An Extreme Overhaul Strategy 
The basic problems to be solved in exploring the path of socialist construction in China, in addition to the main contradictions of socialism, also include the scale, speed, and methods of socialist construction. From 1957 to the end of the "Cultural Revolution", the party made serious mistakes on these two basic issues. Beginning in 1957, serious errors of impatience emerged in socialist construction, while making erroneous judgments about class struggle during the socialist period.
1.Adventurism and Anti-Adventurism
Generally speaking, the emerging nation-states that gained independence after World War II can no longer follow the path of industrialization taken by the old capitalist countries. They often adopt a catch-up strategy in the economy, through a "forced march" in economic construction, striving to develop their own economies in a short period of time. This was also the development strategy universally adopted by the socialist countries at the time. Under the conditions at the time, such a development strategy had a certain rationality and inevitability. The catch-up strategy formed by the party after the founding of New China was influenced by both the Soviet model and a deep understanding of China's national conditions and the severe international situation at the time. As Mao Zedong said, the current state of "One poor and two white" makes us still in a passive state and feel constrained spiritually. We have not yet been liberated in this respect. If production is not developed as soon as possible, there is a risk of being kicked out of the "league". This elevates the catch-up strategy to the political height of the survival of Chinese socialism.
The proposal of the "Great Leap Forward" reflected the party's efforts to combine Marxism with Chinese socialist construction, break away from dependence on the Soviet model, and explore its own path of socialist construction. As early as the latter period of the "First Five-Year" plan, a tendency for hasty adventurism had already emerged in economic construction during the process of agricultural cooperation. After the pace of socialist transformation accelerated in the first half of 1956, higher requirements and standards were put forward for the scale and development speed of national economic construction. When initially preparing for the Eighth Congress, Mao Zedong proposed that the central idea of the Eighth Congress was to oppose rightist conservatism. He demanded the Communist Party to become a "promoting society", everyone should be a promoter, not a promoter retreat. In early 1956, due to the accelerated development of all walks of life, financial and material tension was caused. The party central committee and state council responsible for economic work leaders in time discover a tendency to get ahead, and worked to rectify it. Zhou Enlai, Chen Yun, Liu Shaoqi and others consecutively proposed to oppose hasty adventurism while opposing rightist conservatism in economic construction. On June 20, 1956, according to the spirit of the Politburo meeting, the People's Daily published an editorial titled "We must oppose conservatism and also oppose impetuosity", which played an important role in mobilizing the entire party and especially leaders at all levels to correct the tendency of hasty adventurism in economic work. Thus, through several months of efforts, the blind momentum in economic construction was initially curbed.
However, after the Anti-Rightist Movement, Mao Zedong increasingly expressed his dissatisfaction with the "Anti-Adventurism". He believed that the "Anti-Adventurism" not only dampened the enthusiasm of the masses for the construction of socialism, but also provided the rightists with an excuse for an attack; the success of the rectification and anti-rightist movement made the enthusiasm of the masses rise unprecedentedly. Economic construction should be carried out faster. Mao Zedong's speech at the Third Plenary Session of the Eighth Party Congress not only changed the judgment of the main contradictions in Chinese society made at the First Party Congress, but also changed the principle of both anti-conservatism and anti-adventurism confirmed at the meeting. The anti-"anti-adventurism" has reignited the party's sense of urgency for achieving success.
2. The Rise of the "Great Leap Forward"
During the rectification, the rapid growth of production in some factories and the countryside created a new atmosphere, making many people believe that it is entirely possible to carry out the construction at a much faster pace than the "First Five-Year Plan" on a national scale. This reinforced Mao Zedong's absolutist understanding of the reaction of the superstructure and class struggle, and also strengthened his determination to oppose "anti-adventurism". In late October 1957, the Third Plenary Session of the Eighth Party Congress announced the "Outline for National Agricultural Development from 1956 to 1967 (Revised Draft)". On October 27th, People's Daily published an editorial titled "The Great Program for Constructing Socialist Rural Areas". This editorial called for "Every aspect of agricultural and rural work must be carried out within the next twelve years, in accordance with what is necessary and feasible, to achieve a major leap forward,” thereby proposing the slogan of "leap forward" on the central organ of the Communist Party of China. On November 13th, the People's Daily published an editorial titled "Mobilize All the People, Discuss the Forty Articles, and Create a New Upsurge in Agricultural Production". The editorial criticized that "some people have the malady of rightist conservatism and move at a snail’s pace. They do not understand that after the agricultural cooperative reform, we are in a position and have the necessity to make a major leap forward in the production line". The editorial stated that the achievements of 1956 fully reflected the correctness of this leap-forward development. Those people with right-leaning conservatism saw the correct leap as "adventurism". Under the influence and stimulation of the Soviet Union's proposal at the 1957 Moscow meeting to surpass the United States in fifteen years, Mao Zedong proposed in November 1957 that China should overtake Britain in steel production within fifteen years. The Central Party Committee accepted Mao Zedong's slogan to surpass Britain and announced this goal. The People's Daily published an editorial demanding that all regions and departments critique "rightist conservatism", amend the original development plan based on the "Agricultural Development Outline" and the requirement of "surpassing Britain". Soon, new high targets were proposed widely from the central to local governments, creating a surge in agricultural production and unfolding the prelude to the "Great Leap Forward" movement.
The rise of the peak in agricultural production made Mao Zedong believe more in carrying out political struggles to criticize right-leaning conservative ideas, initiating large-scale mass movements, which could greatly accelerate the pace of economic construction. During a series of central meetings held in the first half of 1958, Mao Zedong critiqued "anti-rush-on" more severely, proposing a series of tasks, targets, slogans, and methods for the "Great Leap Forward" movement. This in effect denied the valuable successful experiences accumulated by the Party and the people during the transition from the national economic recovery to the first five-year plan period, summarized by the first session of the Eighth Congress, and also negated the experience and wisdom of the central leadership collective. After the anti-rightist campaign, the principle of collective leadership and democratic centralism within the Party had been damaged, and it was difficult for the Party to effectively prevent and correct errors in major decisions caused by personal misunderstandings of the major leaders. These meetings fully prepared the thinking and public opinion for the launch of the "Great Leap Forward" movement.
In May 1958, the second session of the Eighth Congress of the Communist Party of China was held. Following Mao Zedong's proposal, the congress adopted the general line of "drumming up enthusiasm, striving to excel, and building socialism with greater, better, and more economical results". The proposal of the general line of socialist construction reflected the general desire of the broad mass of the people to urgently change China's backward economic and cultural conditions, but it neglected objective economic laws, denied the comprehensive balance law of the national economy, exaggerated the counteraction of subjective desires and human will, and made blind haste the dominant guideline in economic work. The congress also strongly criticized the "anti-rush-on" work in the second half of 1956, calling for regions and departments to "pull out the white flag and insert the red flag", which fostered a trend of exaggeration and made the impetuous "left" thought further inflated. After the meeting, the "Great Leap Forward" movement started nationwide from various aspects, and soon reached its climax. While the "Great Leap Forward" in economic construction was taking place, the theoretical circles, scientific and technological circles, sports circles, health circles, and others also proposed their own "leap forward" plans, with many struggle goals that future generations would find hard to believe. For example, many places proposed that everyone should be able to read, write, count, watch movies, sing, paint, dance, perform, and create. Writers and artists were asked to formulate their own "leap forward" plans under the requirements of "writing the center", "singing the center", and "painting the center", and launched a wave of "creative satellites".
The expanded meeting of the Central Political Bureau held in Beidaihe in August 1958 not only failed to make any efforts to correct the rampant exaggeration and chaos in real life but supported them, pushing the "Great Leap Forward" movement to its peak. After the meeting, "leftist" errors, characterized by high targets, blind command, boasting and the "communist wind", flooded seriously nationwide, severely damaging social productivity. After the Lushan meeting in 1959, under the call for "anti-rightism", new waves of the "Great Leap Forward" and the "communist wind", among other mistakes, rushed up again, leading directly to three years of serious difficulties in the national economy.
On the surface, the "Great Leap Forward" movement seems to have some similarities with the catch-up strategies implemented by the Soviet Union and other socialist countries during the same period. However, from the start of the movement, Mao Zedong viewed it as a breakthrough from the Soviet model and an innovation and development for the sinicization of Marxism. He believed that the Soviet construction did not fully mobilize the mass, did not fully leverage the superiority of the socialist system, did not educate and mobilize the masses with communist ideology, and did not extensively conduct mass movements. Consequently, the pace of Soviet construction was languid, which inevitably discounted its construction speed. In contrast, China, having engaged in anti-rightist struggles and triumphant over the bourgeoisie and their ideology, greatly elevated the people's spirit. This provided superior political and spiritual conditions to transcend the Soviet model and accelerate economic development. This understanding became more explicit in 1957 and 1958 and evolved into "promoting production through revolution" during the "Cultural Revolution". The Soviet model indeed needed reform and breakthrough. However, due to unfamiliarity with the modern economic law and the simple, empirical approach to copying mass movements from the war era, and the doctrinaire transplanting of some communist conceptions from classic authors, this catch-up strategy quickly exceeded reasonable limits. It resulted in a rapid expansion of subjectivism, empiricism, and voluntarism, which severely sabotaged the development of our country's productivity.
The extreme catch-up strategy of the "Great Leap Forward" campaign indeed differs from the Soviet model and represents a breakthrough from it. However, it neither conforms to the basic principles of Marxism nor aligns with China's realities. In fact, it distorted the correct direction of the sinicization of Marxism.
III. The Over-Eager Movement Towards People's Commune
The People's Commune Movement that accompanied the "Great Leap Forward" movement in construction was a "great leap forward" in the transition from socialist to communist ways of production, living, and organizational forms. 
1. Origin of the People's Commune Movement
The drastic change in the production relationship was initially triggered by the movement of small and large societies under the advanced agricultural production cooperatives, which was a special demand under the conditions of water conservancy construction and large-scale agricultural base construction. After the socialist transformation and the "anti-rightist" rectification, the Central Party believed that the socialist revolution, both on the economic front and in terms of political ideology, had achieved great victories. This will inevitably inspire the enthusiasm and energy of the masses in the construction of socialism and will inevitably promote economic construction to develop at a pace faster than that of the Soviet Union. Against this backdrop, there was a surge in the construction of agricultural water conservancy in the countryside from the winter of 1957 to the spring of 1958. In the climax, many places started to break through the existing scale of agricultural cooperatives, seeking to merge societies to solve problems related to unified planning and the concentration of labor, resources, and funds etc. The movement to merge societies during this period played a certain role in promoting the strengthening of collective cooperation and the reinforcement of basic farmland water conservancy construction in some areas. Mao Zedong attached great importance to this, reintroduced the proposition of large-scale social organizations, and instructed the drafting of files related to merging large societies. With his affirmation and advocacy, the work related to merging societies quickly started. Under the rendering and promotion of the "Great Leap Forward" atmosphere, the movement to merge societies quickly developed into a mass movement that was eager to promote the agricultural collective production organization to transition to a so-called higher form, regardless of objective conditions. At that time, Mao Zedong and other central leaders believed that the larger the scale of agricultural cooperatives, the higher the degree of public ownership, and the more it could promote production. The large society formed by merging small-scale cooperatives is an effective organizational form for the "Great Leap Forward" in agricultural production.
At the beginning of the commune movement, large communes were just larger than the original cooperatives and were not exactly the same as the later People's Communes which merged governments and communities. However, after several Central Committee meetings in early 1958, central leaders like Mao Zedong and Liu Shaoqi started contemplating changes to the rural grassroots organizational structure and merging townships with communities. They expressed opinions about setting up "communes" at different occasions. In late April, on his train journey to Guangdong, Liu Shaoqi, Zhou Enlai, and Lu Dingyi discussed "promoting communes, promoting utopia, transitioning to communism", and topics such as "fostering socialism, childcare, collective living, setting up factories in schools, schools in factories, and integrating work and study". In late April, while discussing the future organization of China's rural areas with Liu Shaoqi and others, Mao Zedong stated there would be many communities of Communism in the countryside with their own agriculture, industry, universities, middle schools, primary schools, hospitals, scientific research institutions, shops, service industries, transportation, nurseries, public canteens, clubs, and civilian police to maintain public order, and so on. Several rural communes would surround a city, forming even larger Communist communities. The past utopian ideals would be realized and even exceeded. Our educational policies and other cultural and educational enterprises will also develop towards this goal. This vision by leaders like Mao Zedong and Liu Shaoqi was disseminated through the speeches of several representatives during the Second Session of the 8th Party Congress. A few regions took initiatives, and organizations named "communes" appeared in June. On June 30, Liu Shaoqi clearly proposed in a conversation, "The basic organization of the Communist society is starting the experiment... It can't be like now, those who cultivate land only cultivate, those who work only work, now we need to involve agriculture, industry, commerce, education, and military... Now, agricultural cooperatives are beginning to run factories, commerce, banks, services, laundries, canteens, and schools. We will also introduce military exercises in factories, villages, schools. Once we have agriculture, industry, commerce, education, and military, I believe, we can achieve a communist society in thirty to forty years."
In July, Chen Boda published two articles titled "A Whole New Society, A Whole New Man" and "Under the Banner of Comrade Mao Zedong" in the third and fourth issues of the Red Flag magazine respectively, revealing Mao Zedong's thoughts on the People's Communes. The articles stated, “Comrade Mao Zedong said, our direction should be to gradually and orderly combine 'industry, agriculture, exchange, culture and education, militia (universal armament)' into a large commune, thereby becoming the basic unit of our society.” "Transforming a co-operative into a grassroots organization that combines agricultural and industrial cooperation is essentially a People's Commune that combines agriculture and industry." In August, Mao Zedong visited rural areas in Hebei, Henan, and Shandong, encouraging the communes and large communes. He repeatedly stated, "I think a farm is not as good as a People's Commune", "The People's Commune is better." Subsequently, he repeated this thought several times and pointed out the characteristics of the People's Commune, namely large and public. Its advantage is that it can bring together industry, agriculture, commerce, education, and military, which is convenient for leadership. After these thoughts were reported, people all over the country took the initiative, promoting a nationwide trend of establishing People's Communes.
Under this situation, the Beidaihe Conference held from August 17 to 30, 1958 officially decided to establish People's Communes in rural areas nationwide and passed the "Resolution of the CPC Central Committee on the Issue of Establishing People's Communes in Rural Areas" (hereinafter referred to as the "Resolution"). The "Resolution" believes that merging smaller agricultural cooperatives and transforming them into larger People's Communes incorporating workers, peasants, merchants, scholars, and soldiers, as well as the merging of political and social organizations, with a higher degree of collectivization, is the inevitable trend of rapid development of rural production and rapid awakening of peasants. It is "the basic policy necessary to guide peasants to accelerate socialist construction, complete socialism ahead of schedule and gradually transition to communism." In terms of ownership, although the "Resolution" pointed out that we should not rush to change collective ownership to public ownership, it emphasized that there are already elements of public ownership in the collective ownership of People's Communes, which will continue to grow with continuous development. Within three to four years or possibly longer for others, it may gradually replace collective ownership. Such stipulations became the basis for the rush to transition and the widespread "communist winds" in the movement of People's Commune. The "Resolution" also attaches great strategic significance to the People's Communes, considering it "the best organizational form for completing socialism and gradually transitioning to communism, and it will develop into the grassroots unit of the future communist society"; "we should actively use the form of People's Communes to explore a concrete way to transition to communism." The movement of People's Commune and the People's Commune system it formed reflects the Chinese Communist Party and Mao Zedong's understanding of socialism and their ardent pursuit of the communist ideal, reflecting the party's urgent subjective intention to "Sinicize" and "modernize" Marxism. However, history has shown that the People's Commune movement is just the product of the combination of traditional socialist model and some of China's historical traditions. Behind this "new thing" are just some old ideas and traditions.
2. Features of the People's Commune Movement
After the Beidaihe Conference, rural areas across the country rose in a hubbub, regardless of objective conditions, to "get to work quickly", quickly creating a climax of the movement to establish People's Communes on a large scale, completely breaking Mao Zedong's requirement to first experiment and achieve communes by the following spring. By the end of October, the vast majority of areas nationwide had established as many as 26,000 People's Communes, with commune members accounting for over 99% of all households. Thus, within less than two months, People's Communes were established in all rural areas nationwide. At the same time, some provinces and cities also carried out pilot movements of People's Communes in cities.
The People's Commune is heavily tinted with Utopian socialism and militaristic communism. One of the core contents of this socialist concept is equality. The "equality" of socialism is represented in the People's Commune, that is, the pursuit of the "one big, two public" purity of socialism. Mao Zedong has repeatedly emphasized that one of the characteristics of the People's Commune is "one big, two public", with "big" referring to the large scale of the People's Commune organization and "public" referring to a high degree of public ownership. The People's Commune is basically one commune for each township, and even at one point there were several townships for each commune, and one commune for each county. The economic functions of the People's Commune span almost all areas and industries such as industry, agriculture, forestry, livestock, sidelines, fishing, finance, culture, health and military. The People's Commune has become an actual grassroots organization of state power. This type of organization that combines politics and society, and integrates workers, farmers, businesses, academics, and soldiers, implements an organizational militarization, action militarization, and collective living style, weakening the social division of labor and interchange, rejecting material interests and market economy, and pursuing "big and comprehensive", "small and comprehensive", self-contained and self-closed system. What is even more serious is that the People's Commune is eager to transition to a unified national ownership model. It relies on commands from administrative authorities at all levels to transfer all the means of production and private property of the senior communes to the communes without compensation. The land retained by the commune members during the agricultural cooperative, the rearing of livestock, the operation of forest land, some larger production tools, and even private houses and livestock, are all considered remnants of private ownership and are all turned into commune ownership. At the same time, in order to vigorously eliminate so-called "bourgeois rights", the commune implements an egalitarian supply system.
At a deeper level, the emergence of the People’s Commune is a result of simplifying and applying certain Marxist theories about socialism, and simply copying the successful experiences of the war years to the economic construction of the peace period. It confuses the boundaries between collective ownership and national ownership, between socialism and communism, and between different stages of socialist development, showing a clear utopian color. The original intention of the People's Commune movement was to use and surpass Marxism, but in fact it distorts Marxism with a dogmatic and empirical attitude, and is a step backwards in socialism.
The movement of the People's Communes was a hasty attempt by our party and Mao Zedong to quickly develop social productivity when there was insufficient experience in constructing socialism, insufficient understanding of the laws of economic development and the basic situation of China's economy. It was rashly launched, and it was the backlash of exaggerated subjective will. This is a major mistake made by our party in the process of exploring the construction of socialism, and also a setback in the sinicization of Marxism during the period of building socialism. Like the "Great Leap Forward" movement, the People's Commune movement itself is heavily "Sinicized," but its content and methods are detached from both Chinese reality and the internal requirements of the modernization of Marxism. The fundamental reason, as Deng Xiaoping said, is: "What is socialism, what is Marxism? Our understanding of this issue in the past was not completely clear."

Chapter 7 Deepening the Understanding of Socialism in the Preliminary Rectification of the "Left"
I. Profound Reflection in the Nine-month Rectification of the "Left"
1. Mao Zedong Took the Lead in Correcting "Leftist" Errors
The serious consequences caused by the rapid development of the "Great Leap Forward" and the People's Commune Movement were clearly exposed during the autumn and winter of 1958. Mao Zedong was an active advocate and promoter of the "Great Leap Forward" and the People's Commune Movement, but he was also among the leaders of the central party leadership who early on, through investigation and research, discerned serious problems in the movement and took strong measures to correct mistakes. From November 1958 to July of the following year, under Mao Zedong's leadership and promotion, the Central Party held consecutive conferences such as the First Zhengzhou Conference (November 1958), Wuchang Conference and 6th Plenary Session of the 8th Central Committee (November, December 1958), the Second Zhengzhou Conference (February and March 1959), the Shanghai Conference and 7th Plenary Session of the 8th Central Committee (March and April 1959), and the early period of the Lushan Conference (July 1959). These meetings analyzed the situation soberly, summed up experiences, and began to correct the identified "leftist" errors. At these meetings, Mao Zedong took the lead in criticizing rash behaviors, advocating for "compression of air", calling for cooling down, leading the participants to different levels of tranquility, actively researching measures, adjusting certain policy targets, and the chaotic situation triggered by the "Great Leap Forward" and People's Commune Movement was initially curbed. Objectively speaking, the process of correcting the "left" is a process of reunderstanding the realities of China, the socialist theories of Marx's classic authors, and the Marxist socialist theory as interpreted by Stalin and the Soviet Union. These are all issues that had to be resolved in the Sinicization of Marxism at the time. Therefore, the process of correcting "leftism" was also a process of advancing the Sinicization of Marxism through twists and turns.
At the end of 1958, Mao Zedong found that in the People's Commune Movement, many people had a lot of confused thoughts, and there was a great tendency to quickly declare public ownership, abolish commerce, and eliminate commodity production, and serious consequences had been caused in practical work. He admitted at the second Zhengzhou Conference that since September 1958, there had been "a big adventurous mistake", and "the main mistake in the party is still 'left'". He pledged to take responsibility for the errors, saying "I can talk about it even if the central government does not, I will be unburdened once I speak". He hoped to persuade those who were hot-headed to calm down. After several meetings of brewing and discussing, the 6th Plenary Session of the party, convened from the end of November to the beginning of December 1958, passed the "Resolution on Several Issues of the People's Commune" (hereinafter referred to as the "Resolution"). The "Resolution", while highly praising the People's Communes, pointed out that the boundaries between collective ownership and public ownership should not be confused, nor should the boundaries between socialism and communism; at present, the People's Communes are basically economic organizations of collective ownership, and the transformation of agricultural production cooperatives into the People's Communes does not mean a transition from collective ownership to public ownership, nor does it mean a transition from socialism to communism; attempting to prematurely negate the principle of distribution according to work and replace it with distribution according to needs is a unrealistic utopian ideal; rushing the transition only fosters tendencies towards small capitalist egalitarianism, and is not conducive to the construction of socialism; and so forth.
The resolution points out the erroneous tendency to prematurely cancel commodity production and exchange. It states that in the necessary period ahead, the commodity production of the people's communes, as well as commodity exchange between the state and communes, and between communes, must undergo significant development. This form of commodity production and exchange is carried out on the basis of socialist ownership, not capitalism. To continue development of commodity production and maintaining the principle of distribution according to work are two major principle issues for developing a socialist economy. It is necessary to form a unified understanding across the whole Party.
2. Resolving ownership issues and distribution issues within communes
After initially curbing the impetus to transition too hastily to nationally owned properties and communism during the rectification of People's Communes, Mao Zedong took steps to handle the issues of egalitarianism and excessive centralization within the communes, further rectifying "communist" tendencies. At the Second Zhengzhou Conference, he emphasized that the primary issue in People's Communes is that the changes in production relations and the issue of communal ownership have moved too far ahead. He noted that there must be a development process in understanding the all-property system of the commune. The eagerness to abolish the production team’s ownership and completely implement the commune’s ownership, termed "one lump, two adjustments, three collections," caused great panic among the farmers. This is the fundamental reason for the current tension in our relationship with the farmers. He stressed that the trend of egalitarianism denies the differences in income between each production team and each individual, denying the socialist principle of distribution according to work and the principle of more work leading to more benefits. The tendency to centralize excessively negates the ownership of the production team. Both tendencies contain the thought of denying the law of value and equal exchange. Equal exchange during the socialist period is an economic law that cannot be violated. Violating it means gratuitously occupying the work results of others. We do not even confiscate from the national bourgeoisie gratuitously. How can we gratuitously occupy the fruits of the peasants' labor? Mao Zedong emphasized that only by "keeping accounts" can we implement the objective existence of the law of value, which is a great school. Only by utilizing it, can we teach our tens of millions of cadres and hundreds of millions of people to build socialism. In his speeches and comments during the meeting, he further pointed out that this is a "left-wing adventurist thought", believing that the main focus within the Party should still be against the "left". In just a few short months, such an understanding on some fundamental issues related to socialist economic construction, adherence to and development of Marxism is precious.
Mao Zedong's opinions were accepted by the senior officials of the party. It was stipulated in the two documents, "Several Regulations (Draft) on the Management System of the People's Communes" formulated at the second Zhengzhou Conference and "Eighteen Questions on the People's Communes" formulated at the Shanghai Conference: the production team (referred to as the large production team in some places, roughly equivalent to the original advanced commune) is the basic accounting unit of the people's commune, and the ownership of the production team is still the main foundation of the commune; the production squad under the production team (referred to as the production team in some places, roughly equivalent to the original primary commune) should also have some ownership and administrative authority as the contract production unit; the old accounts of the equal distribution of property during the process of collectivization were generally not counted as generally necessary, all the labor and property used by county societies and teams, as well as the personal property of society members, should be cleaned up, returned in kind or compensated at a discounted price. An urgent directive issued by the central government in May and June 1959 stipulated that: the rural areas should restore their own land, allow community members to raise livestock and poultry, encourage community members to make full use of the scattered land around their houses and roads to plant crops and trees, without levying public grain or turning it over to public ownership. The central government also clearly pointed out that this small private ownership in a large collective is necessary for a long period of time; allowing such small private ownership is actually to protect the fruits of the members' labor outside of collective working hours, not to "develop capitalism".
In nearly nine months, in addition to a number of important adjustments in the field of production relations, the central government also made some reductions to those high indicators that were fundamentally impossible to achieve during the 1958 "Great Leap Forward", although these reductions did not fully resolve the problems of high indicators, and were often not effectively implemented in actual work.
Of course, the nine-month rectification of the "leftist" was not carried out under the complete rejection of the "leftist" guiding ideology. Mao Zedong did not consider the fundamental guiding ideology to be wrong. In his view, the general line, "Great Leap Forward", and the People's Commune were all correct, and his remark was "the line is still the same line, the spirit is still the same spirit". He proposed "we should sing a low tune", "we need to reduce the air pressure", it was only "the indicators need to be adjusted", "solving the problem of working methods", in order to better leap forward, and so on. Based on such an understanding, it is inevitable that there are many limitations in rectifying the "leftist", and it is difficult to avoid twists and turns. It should be especially noted that this short period of history is an important link in the process of the Sinicization of Marxism in China after the founding of the People's Republic. The positive and negative experiences and lessons provide a special perspective, which is of significant importance for us to understand the basic features and laws of the Sinicization of Marxism under socialist conditions.
II. Investigation and Research and Rectification of Ideological Line
1. In-depth Investigation and the Beginning of the Anti-"Left"
The most important theoretical quality of Marxism is to respect the authority of practice and insist on starting from reality and seeking truth from facts. Diving deep into reality, conducting investigations and research, and correctly understanding the national conditions are the basic requirements for the Sinicization of Marxism. During the nearly nine months of rectifying the "Left", a prominent phenomenon ran through: Mao Zedong and other central leaders were eager to dive into reality, carry out investigations and research, and actually began a new round of re-acknowledgment of the national conditions as a precursor to correcting the "Left" leaning errors.
If the "Great Leap Forward" and the People's Commune movement were always associated with the serious exaggeration and departures from the actual situation in the country, then from the very beginning, the effort to rectify the "leftist" deviation was closely linked to thorough and realistic research and investigation. Just like in the period of democratic revolution, advocating for investigation and research against dogmatism, Mao Zedong once again plunged into reality to carry out research and investigation, starting from October 1958, in order to rectify the "leftist" deviations. Over nearly nine months, Mao Zedong made three inspection trips starting from mid-October 1958, where he visited Henan and Hubei multiple times, Hebei twice, and Shandong, Guangdong, Shanghai, Zhejiang, Hunan, and other places once, spending over four months in total for field inspections and holding meetings. In addition, he also sent his aides for grass-roots investigation and research, and provided them with specific and detailed guidance, hoping they could provide some reliable information about the situation at the grass-roots level. This in-depth research gave him a true understanding of the problems and their causes at the grassroots level.
Before the first Zhengzhou Conference, in order to clarify the actual situation, Mao Zedong went on inspection tours from October 13 to 17. During these days, he had several talks and meetings with the party secretaries of Tianjin, Hebei, Baoding, Tang County, Zhengding, Xushui, Anguo, and other counties. From the 19th to the 29th, he sent four telegrams and letters to Chen Boda and others, specifically arranging for their investigation and research in several communes in Henan, practicing the methods and attitudes of conducting survey work among the workers, being good at seeing and raising issues, and reporting to him. On the 26th, he sent Wu Lengxi and Tian Jiaying to Xuwu and Qiliying for investigation. On October 31, he took a special train through Baoding, Shijiazhuang, Handan, and Xinxiang to the south, and at each place, he talked with the local provincial, municipal, and county party committee leaders for investigation and research. After the Zhengzhou Conference, from November 11 to 20, he continued to conduct research and investigations in Henan and Hebei, respectively talking with cadres at the provincial, municipal, county and commune levels as well as relevant central leaders and cadres sent down by the central government to understand all aspects of the situation. After the sixth plenary session of the Eighth Party Congress in late November, he again had extensive discussions with local leaders in Hubei, Hunan and on the way back to Beijing, continuing to conduct in-depth field investigations. From February 23 to 26, 1959, on his way to Zhengzhou for the second Zhengzhou Conference, he separately talked with leaders in charge in Tianjin, Hebei, Shandong, Henan provinces, and cities.
Through extensive and in-depth investigations, his thoughts gradually approached reality. At the first Zhengzhou Conference, he proposed to distinguish between two types of public ownership, insisting on equivalent exchange, criticizing the rush to abolish commodity production and the "hurry to forge ahead" tendency. At the Wuchang Conference, he said, "In our country, at present, some people are a bit too enthusiastic." He also said that we are now blowing things out of proportion, which I think is unrealistic, and that we should keep a low profile, and compress our brains a bit. He admitted that he had made a "rash" mistake, which was seeking vain fame to real disaster. He even stated: In the past, others were against my radicalism, and now I am against their radicalism. According to his views, the "Resolution on Certain Issues About People's Communes" passed by the Sixth Plenary Session clearly distinguished between collective ownership and public ownership, socialism and communism, emphasizing that "continuation of commodity production and adhering to the principle of distribution according to work are two major principle issues for the development of a socialist economy."
At the beginning of 1959, Mao Zedong's mind became more sober. In January, he said in a conversation that he needs to observe whether the overall guidelines were correct. In February, he mentioned, "We are still children when it comes to economic construction", "We must admit that we don't understand how to engage the earth and confront nature. We do not know the strategies and tactics." At the second Zhengzhou meeting, he pointed out that the peasant's fears started after the establishment of the communes, which caused a rather tense state on some issues between us and the farmers. The reason lies in the disregard for the law of value and advancing a little too far in the issue of commune ownership. These analyses cleared some confused understanding and accurately grasped the crux of the People's Commune system. According to his requirements, the meeting defined the guidelines for rectification and construction of People's Communes, forming the significant minutes of the "Zhengzhou Conference". After the second Zhengzhou meeting, he took advantage of the situation, made suggestions on major policy issues such as whether the basic accounting unit should be at the brigade or the team level, whether to count old accounts, and whether the teams should have some ownership, essentially scaling back the basic ownership of the communes to the size of the former advanced or some primary societies.
From mid-October 1958 (less than five months after the launch of the "Great Leap Forward") to early 1959, Mao Zedong worked tirelessly, always on the go, researching and investigating. On this basis, through the two Zhengzhou meetings, Wuchang meeting, and the Sixth and Seventh Plenary Sessions of the Eighth Party Congress, and the Shanghai meeting, he has finally taken a step to rectify "leftism" and returned the party's policy to reality. This transformation was the result of Mao Zedong and the Party Central Leadership Collective's direct investigation, listening to the voice of the masses, and deepening their understanding of the national conditions. It injected a strong force into the progression of the Sinicization of Marxism at this period. This has many similarities to the adjustments in the early 60s, which were led by large-scale investigations and research from the entire party.
2. About the premise of research and investigation
In-depth investigation is the premise and foundation of correcting "leftism". However, is there no investigation when "leftism" is committed during the correction? No. During the "Great Leap Forward" and the People's Commune movement, Mao Zedong also visited factories and rural areas to understand the situation on the ground, and repeatedly emphasized that central and provincial leaders should spend several months out of their offices each year, appearing in the posture of ordinary workers, "planting their stakes deeply", treating the masses with an equal attitude, and thus understanding the real situation. However, this type of investigation did not guarantee that Mao truly understood the situation, rather it led him to conclusions and determinations, such as surpassing Britain in just "two to three years, two years is possible" (June 22, 1958), "if food is plentiful, a ration system can be implemented, eating will not cost money" (August, 1958), and "steel production might as well double, why be sluggish?" (August, 1958). Therefore, it is not to say that just advocating or conducting investigations will allow one to understand national conditions and obtain the practical foundation of the Sinification of Marxism. Without investigation, there is no right to speak. Only through investigation and research can we accurately grasp the national conditions. This is a general rule, principle, and method. However, from the perspective of a specific historical period or individual, investigation and research may not necessarily yield understanding of national conditions. The reasons for such "investigation failure" are not only due to limitations of both objective and subjective conditions, such as the degree of development and exposure of problems, the amount of experience accumulated, but are also constrained by other factors. For example, starting from strong subjective desires, from formulaic dogmatism or empiricism, placing greater emphasis on facts or opinions that agree with one's viewpoint, hope that investigations will confirm pre-existing understanding; unable to accept conclusions drawn from other's investigations that differ from one's own, and so on. Moreover, there are other deeper inescapable reasons. For instance, how can we ensure the quality of an investigation, and who will judge the correctness of the results after having just expanded the Anti-Rightist movement, repeatedly escalating 'anti-adventurism’ criticism against Zhou Enlai and others, when class struggle has seriously damaged democracy within and outside the Party, and the Party has begun to voice one opinion, turning truth into a "scarce resource", and when even to speak the truth one needs to be called upon by the chairman of the Central Party? Furthermore, whether it was the nine months of correcting "leftism" or the large-scale investigation and research by the entire party in 1961, it was all conducted when Mao had some understanding of "leftist" errors and his attitude had softened. But what if his attitude did not soften, what then? These are questions that require deep and prolonged consideration. 
It can be said that, under the condition of the Party already being in power, what is often important is not whether to investigate or research, but rather the ability to do so scientifically and effectively, and the ability to implement good intentions. However, to truly realize this good intention, to truly grasp China's actual situation, it requires conditions beyond investigation and research. 
Ⅲ. What kind of Marxism should guide practice?
1. Reading and What to Read
Aside from empirical research, another fundamental component of Sinicization of Marxism lies in adhering to the Marxist stand, viewpoint, and method. This point is unquestionable and undisputed within socialist states and proletarian parties. However, followed by this issue, another equally important one arises: what kind of Marxism to adhere to? Or, how can we ensure a correct understanding, grasp, and application of Marxism? To resolve this issue, aside from other conditions, it is especially important to note that the Marxism spoken of herein should have contemporary characteristics. Just like how Mao Zedong's notion of the "contemporization" of Marxism ensured "On New Democracy" became a successful example of Sinicization. Without this, the task of Sinicization cannot be truly put into practice. 
During the nine months of correcting the "left", aside from a series of practical research, another significant phenomenon was that after the initial correction of the "left" started at the end of 1958, Mao Zedong eagerly demanded at a series of important meetings that the party’s leading cadres study while linking it to the "Chinese socialist economic revolution and economic construction", to "acquire a clear mind in order to guide our great economic work". He believed that during the period of the Great Leap Forward and People's Commune, reading such books was most interesting and could clarify a lot of confused ideas. At the start of the 1959 Lushan Conference, the first item in Mao’s 19-item agenda was reading. On July 2, he said at the opening ceremony that in light of the lack of understanding of many comrades in leadership positions about socialist economic issues last year and not knowing the law of economic development, coupled with the bureaucratic attitude in current work, one should read more. "We have a year’s worth of experience from last year, so it’s even better to read now".
One point worth noting is that at this time, Mao Zedong particularly emphasized that the content of study for leaders at all levels of the party were three important works: "Problems of the Soviet Socialist Economy", "On Communist Society by Marx and Engels", and "Soviet Socialist Political Economy" (textbook). This is somewhat contrasted with his repeated emphasis on breaking superstitions, liberating thoughts, and defeating dogmatism during the launch of the "Great Leap Forward", as well as only repeatedly recommending reading "On Communist Society by Marx and Engels". The change in reading content directly reflects the change in guiding thought from "left" to correcting the "left", reflecting what kind of Marxism is used to guide practice and what attitude is to be taken towards Marxism.
2. Implementing the General Line of Transitional Period & Studying the History of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union (Bolshevik)
As described in Chapter 3, in 1953, the party proposed the general line of the transitional period, began from implementing the new democratic national programme to the socialist transformation and "First Five-Year Plan" construction with the Soviet model as standard and goal. Under the call of the Central Committee, there was a climax of studying the "History of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union (Bolshevik)" (Chapter Nine to Chapter Twelve) and "Problems of the Soviet Socialist Economy" and other works across the whole party. The chapters related to "The Concise Textbook of the History of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union (Bolshevik)", completed in 1938, systematically discussed the history and experience of the Soviet Communist Party leading the people in restoring the national economy, implementing industrialization and agricultural collectivization, and emphasized the significance of prioritizing the development of heavy industry to achieve socialist industrialization, which is a classic system summary of the Stalinist model. In "Problems of Soviet Socialist Economy" published in 1952, Stalin systematically discussed some basic laws in socialist economic work based on the experience of Soviet socialist construction. Although these understandings are inevitably limited by the times, it is somewhat advanced compared to the Soviet model of the 1930s and the relevant discussions in the "History of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union (Bolshevik)", and should be considered an important achievement in the process of modernizing Marxism. It achieved high praises from the Chinese Communists. "The 'Problems of the Soviet Socialist Economy' and 'Speech at the Nineteenth Congress of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union' left by Stalin, creatively enrich and develop Marxism-Leninism, giving us new and extremely sharp theoretical weapons." "We must study Stalin's theories even harder", "make us truly become good students of Stalin". In the initial stage of industrialization, what we basically followed in theory were these theories by Stalin, which Mao Zedong said, "The direction is one, the content is one."
Starting from 1956, with the completion of the three major transformations, especially after the 20th Congress of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union and the events in Poland and Hungary, Mao Zedong and the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China clearly felt the drawbacks of the Soviet model and the necessity for its reform. They proposed to act according to the actual situation, not bound by the existing practices of the Soviet Union, and to find their own path for socialist construction in China. By the time of writing "On the Ten Relationships," the thought of "taking the Soviet Union as a mirror" became more evident. Mao Zedong emphasized that "in the past, we learned from their experience and lessons, and saved us from taking many detours. We need to draw lessons more now." "What we need to learn belongs to universal truths, and learning must be combined with China's actual conditions. If every sentence, including Marx's words, were copied verbatim, it would be too much. Our theory is the combination of the universal truth of Marxism-Leninism and the specific practice of China's revolution." He later stated, "For the first eight years, we copied the experience of other countries. But from the proposal of ten relationships in 1956, we began to find our suitable route for China." However, discovering the limitations of the Soviet model and opposing dogmatism based on Soviet experience is just the first step in finding the right path. Whether the correct route that suits China can be found depends on how to correctly take the second step.
3. Launching the "Great Leap Forward" and reading "Marx, Engels, Lenin and Stalin on Communist Society"
During the brewing and launching of the "Great Leap Forward," Mao Zedong repeatedly criticized right-wing conservatism, emphasized the need to break superstition, and opposed dogmatism and blindness in learning from the Soviet Union. The theme of his four speeches at the second session of the Eighth Congress was to break superstition, liberate thought, dare to think, dare to speak, and dare to act. He believed that many things we did and practiced surpassed Marx, so all superstitions must be broken, and we should not fear professors, nor fear Marx. He believed that after the rectification and "anti-right" movement, a climax of economic construction would inevitably be achieved after great victories on the political and ideological fronts. The "Great Leap Forward" and the People's Commune movement were attempts to break through the Soviet model in terms of construction speed and the transition period. Against this backdrop, "Problems of the Socialist Economy of the Soviet Union" seemed to have been neglected for a while, because its main contents (such as goods, law of value, planned and proportional development, and "technical determinants", "cadres decide everything", etc. - these are actually developments of classic theory according to practice) cannot provide a theoretical basis for more extreme initiatives like the "Great Leap Forward" and People's Communes.
Under the inspiration of emancipating the mind and breaking superstitions, facing the continuously escalating situation of leap-forward and the eager wave to transition, Lenin's new economic policy was incompatible with the reality, and the so-called Stalin model which had a certain degree of defects such as "one size fits all" and "eager to transition" was also off the table. For a time, China seemed to be in a state of a kind of "model vacuum" or "theory vacuum". Against the backdrop of simplified and idealized understandings of socialism and communism in socialist countries at the time, the early descriptions by classic authors of the future society resonated strongly with the Party leadership. In a discussion held between February and March 1958, Mao Zedong believed that the future instance of the combination of township and community would be a prototype of communism, managing everything: industry, agriculture, commerce, education, military. In April 1958, Leaders like Liu Shaoqi and Zhou Enlai, when discussing the new rural grassroots organizational structure, talked about communes, utopianism, and the transition to communism etc., and requested to compile the books "Utopian Socialism" and "Marx and Engels on Communist Society". In June, the book "Marx and Engels on Communist Society" was completed. It started with the sentence: "In the situation of the great leap forward of socialist construction in our country, where 'one day equals twenty years', people can't help but care about how our country will gradually transition from socialism to communist society". This book regarded some early descriptions of communist society by classic authors as theoretical basis and spiritual driving force for the eagerness to transition and "one size fits all". For instance, the early talks of Engels in the speech of 1845 about the basic units of communist society called communes, which were numbered as the first quotation in the book, seemed to have had a significant impact on Mao's final decision to name the newly merged large-scale communities as "people's communes". Meanwhile, the “Supply System” (to reduce or even eliminate differences) copied Marx's arguments about "bourgeois right", and “one day equals twenty years” rhetoric during the revolutionary period was used to estimate the development speed of productive forces during the socialist period; and the assertion of implementing many things first in the army, as stated by the classic authors, was used as the basis for the militarized management of the people's commune. In August, at the Beidaihe meeting that launched the people's commune movement, Mao recommended this book to the conference "to provide a theoretical basis for the transition to communism", calling for its public publication and widespread dissemination. He found this book inspiring but also quite inadequate. Many of the ideas in it were vague impressions, as there was no experience at that time. It seemed natural to call for the study of such a book while recognizing that "the realization of communism in our country is no longer a matter of the distant future."
In an atmosphere opposing dogmatism and being eager to transition rapidly, directly applying some early arguments from classic authors without considering significant differences and changes in era and national conditions is actually replacing dogmatism towards the "History of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union (Bolsheviks)" and Stalin's "Problems of Soviet Socialist Economy" with the dogma towards classic authors, and using some more traditional conclusions as the basis to surpass and replace the somewhat outdated Soviet model, thereby finding theoretical basis for "great leap forward" and other extreme practices. From the perspective of the history of Marxism development, the process of launching the "Great Leap Forward" and the People's Commune movement is a process that uses dogmatism as a mediator to replace modernity with tradition.
4. Two Books Studied during the Nine-Months Continual Rectification
After the rectification of the "Left" in November 1958, the content of Mao Zedong's book readings changed significantly from his call to read books on communism a few months prior. During the preparation and convening of the first Zhengzhou meeting, the book he carefully studied and repeatedly called on the entire party to seriously study was Stalin's "Problems of Soviet Socialist Economy." "Our study of the nature of the commune, exchange, transition from socialism to communism, and transition from collective ownership to public ownership, the reference material is still Stalin's 'Problems of Soviet Socialist Economy.'" "We now see it differently from when it was published. At the time of publication, none of us thought about these issues."
On November 9, in order to clarify the ideological confusion during the "Great Leap Forward," Mao Zedong called for the committee members of the Central, Provincial, City, Autonomous Region, District Committee and County Committees to seriously read Stalin's "Problems of Soviet Socialist Economy" and "Marx, Engels, Lenin and Stalin on Communist Society" in his famous "Suggestions for Reading." Carefully read each book three times. When time permits, you can also read the "Soviet Political Economy Textbook." "Read these two books in conjunction with the Chinese socialist economic revolution and economic construction, to gain a clear mind for the guidance of our great economic work. Many people now have a lot of confused thoughts, reading these two books may clarify them." "During the Great Leap Forward and the People's Commune, reading such books is the most interesting."
On November 9 and 10, Mao Zedong explained the first, second and third chapters of this book to all comrades attending the first Zhengzhou meeting, saying, "In the past, I was not interested, but it's different now. There are many things in these three chapters that are worth noting." He added: "Books should be read from beginning to end, chapter by chapter and section by section, and discussed." He focused on Chapter 2 on the "commodity economy issue," "Trying to move Stalin, continue to persuade some comrades". Addressing the widespread rhetoric of canceling commodities and rushing to transition during the "Great Leap Forward," he repeatedly quoted and developed Stalin's discourse on commodities, emphasizing: "We must affirm the positive role of socialist commodity production and commodity exchange"; pointing out , "Commodity production cannot be mixed with capitalism. Why are we afraid of commodity production?”; He repeatedly criticized the trend of blurring the boundaries between collective ownership and public ownership. On November 13, he suggested discussing the first, second and third chapters of Stalin's "Opinion on Soviet Economic Issues," "We do this to prepare for the Wuhan meeting (expanded meeting of the Political Bureau)." At the Sixth Plenary Session of the Party, he called for: "For our cause, study economic theory problems in connection with reality," "At present, studying this issue has great theoretical and practical significance."
This intense and in-depth period of reading had a significant impact on Mao Zedong. During the first Zhengzhou Conference, when Mao Zedong was revising the "Forty Points of the Fifteen-Year Socialist Construction Plan (1958-1972)" and "Resolution on Several Issues of the People's Commune at the Zhengzhou Conference", his understanding of what socialism is, what is meant by the establishment of socialism, and the relationship between the two types of socialist ownership, largely reflected the ideas in "Soviet Socialist Economic Issues". Against the trend of underestimating planning and balance during the "Great Leap Forward", Mao Zedong commented in his reading notes that Stalin's proposition of "the law of planned development of the national economy" was a "objective law", and questioned: "Have we studied, mastered, and learned to apply this objective law proficiently? Does our plan fully reflect this objective law?"
Different from the classic authors' discussion of communism, "Soviet Socialist Economic Issues" was written based on certain practices of socialist construction. While it still belongs to the traditional socialist model overall, its discussion of socialist economics has far outstripped the general descriptions of future society by classic authors. Just like some of the arguments taken from "Marx, Engels, Lenin, and Stalin on Communist Society" became the theoretical armament for those eager to transition, Stalin's book served as an important tool for Mao Zedong to correct "leftist" mistakes and unify the Party's thoughts, a.k.a. "Using this dead man (Stalin) to suppress the living". The change in reading focus reflects indirectly the return to the traditional Stalinist model from extreme behaviors like the "Great Leap Forward", and the desire to replace the mere copying of classic Marxism with a more contemporary interpretation of Marxism.
In the first half of 1959, as the liberal correction deepened, Mao Zedong, based on his reading of Stalin's works, shifted the focus of study to the third edition (Volume Two) of the Soviet textbook "Political Economy". Beforehand, on November 20, 1958, Mao Zedong had proposed to print the "Important Modifications and Additions to the Third Edition of the Soviet 'Political Economy Textbook'" sorted out by the Institute of Economics at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences' Division of Philosophy and Social Sciences, which had been published in the internal publication of the Central Propaganda Department, and distribute it to comrades attending the Wuchang Conference. The following day, he proposed to " read the textbook on political economy", "start with the socialist part first". In June 1959, he instructed to print the textbook in large print and distribute it to leaders at the central and provincial level. On July 2, in a meeting with some central leadership and heads of various cooperation zones, he said that in view of the fact that many leaders last year still did not have a good understanding of socialist economic issues, did not understand the laws of economic development, and there was still a lot of business administration in the current work, there should be good reading. "Members of the Central, Provincial, Municipal, and Prefectural Committee, including county party secretaries, should read the Soviet 'Political Economy Textbook' (Third Edition)." On the 3rd, the first of the "Issues for Discussion at the Lushan Conference" listed by Mao Zedong was reading. "Senior cadres read Volume Two of the Third Edition of 'Political Economy Textbook'. Readers range from members of the Central Committee to county party secretaries, all should read." On August 15, Mao Zedong also suggested that central leaders read the Soviet "Philosophy Dictionary" (Third Edition) and the third edition of the "Political Economy Textbook". Mao Zedong hoped that cadres at all levels of the Party would learn the economic theory of Soviet socialism in the mid-1950s by combining the practice of the "Great Leap Forward", conscientiously sum up experience, and correct "leftist" mistakes. Although the Lushan Conference saw a reversal from correcting "leftists" to anti-rightists, from the winter of 1959 to early 1960, central leaders including Liu Shaoqi, Mao Zedong, and Zhou Enlai formed study groups one after another to thoroughly read Volume Two of the "Political Economy Textbook" Third Edition, resulting in several important reading discussions.
The third edition of the "Textbook on Political Economy" published in October 1958, as a whole, still follows the Stalinist model, but to some extent, it reflects the initial results of Soviet reform after Stalin's death, and deepens understanding on the question of "What is socialism". Compared with the first edition of the "Textbook on Political Economy" compiled according to Stalin's "Problems of Soviet Socialist Economy", it has made many modifications, with the most supplements being in the part about the socialist mode of production. It provides new expressions on issues such as the basic economic law of socialism, the law of planned proportional development of the national economy, the law of commodity production and value, and material incentives. For example, when discussing the necessity of commodity production under socialism, the third edition highlights that product exchanges between different owners inevitably take the form of commodity transactions. In contrast to the previous view that the circulation of means of production within state ownership is not a commodity, the third edition argues that such circulation does not change the owner, but is still a commodity. Regarding the law of value under socialism, the first and second editions mainly discussed it from a limiting perspective, while the third edition mainly discussed it from a utilitarian perspective. When talking about economic accountability, the third edition emphasizes its importance to collective farms, which was not mentioned previously. The principles of “material incentives” and “distribution according to labor” are given a more important status in the third edition, which is notably different from the previous two editions. For example, unlike the first and second editions, the third edition emphasizes more the roles of the law of value and material interests under socialist conditions. These new viewpoints reflect the deepening understanding of the issues of socialism based on new practice on the development of the original model (albeit only preliminary), and should be regarded as an effort and result of the modernization of Marxism. 
5. Mao Zedong and Liu Shaoqi's Reading of the Soviet "Textbook on Political Economy" and Discussion
Mao Zedong's discussion on the textbook covers many aspects including economy, philosophy, politics, history, international affairs and so on. He interpreted and elaborated on some viewpoints in the textbook based on his own experiences and understandings, especially after wrongly criticizing Peng Dehuai at the Lushan Conference. He accepted some viewpoints in the textbook, strengthened some, and denied some. Among these, there are new understandings of the laws of socialist construction, and there are also aspects where traditional Stalinist models are adhered to and even developed. For example, on the understanding of the historical stage of socialism, Mao Zedong believed that socialism could and should be divided into stages, especially his idea of "underdeveloped socialism" and "relatively developed socialism", which was a new contribution to the stage theory of socialism at the time and developed the understanding of the long-term nature of socialism. As for the goal of socialist modernization in China, he proposed that "the construction of socialism originally required industrial modernization, agricultural modernization, and modernization of scientific culture; now we must add defense modernization", and emphasized that China must establish an independent and complete industrial system. Faced with the eagerness to transition to communism at the time, he emphasized that the completion of socialist construction in China is a daunting task, "it's too early to talk about building socialism". He proposed that several aspects should be pursued under the condition of prioritizing the development of heavy industry. In response to the confusion about the commodity economy since the "Great Leap Forward", Mao Zedong pointed out that those who advocate abolition of commodities and elimination of commodity production do not distinguish between socialist commodity production and capitalist commodity production, and do not understand the importance of using commodity production under socialism. He also believed that means of production could also be commoditized. He agreed with Stalin’s view that commodity production is linked to certain economic conditions. He emphasized the workers' direct management of the state, implementing equality between workers and managers, cadres and masses. Regarding the main views in the book on the laws of the socialist economy, the speed of industrialization, the commodity economy, etc., he also expressed agreement, and so on.
On the other hand, some of the content of the conversation reflected his continued zeal for the "Great Leap Forward." For example, he still insists on highly praising the "great public and two public" of the people's commune, considering it the best form of transition to communism; determining that the contract to the household is a part of the wealthier peasants' private concept of resistance to community; he was dissatisfied with the third edition of the textbook changing "Great Leap Forward" to "huge development", hoping to find a basis for the "Great Leap Forward" and the movement of people's communes in textbooks; he praised the saying that "poverty is a motivator", thinking that it is not good to be rich; he agrees with the textbook that socialism is not an independent, fixed social-economic form, and it is transitioning towards communism; he talked about the necessity of transition more often, which is actually the same as other socialist countries at that time, without realizing the long-term nature of the socialist stage; in the driving force of socialist development, he criticized the textbook a few times for the flaw of not recognizing social contradictions as the driving force of socialist development, but he praised the opinion that the main contradiction in the economy during the transitional period is between socialism and capitalism, as mentioned in the textbook; he highly appreciated the past supply system and criticized the textbook for talking too much about material benefits; he criticized the textbook for exaggerating the role of the value law, thinking that the value law cannot be used as the main basis for planning work, because "the Great Leap Forward is not managed according to the requirements of the value law", and so on. These remarks have fallen behind the standard of "Soviet Socialist Economic Issues". Some of the content reflects that he values the textbooks lower than the "Soviet Socialist Economic Issues". Between the two, he prefers to stick to the traditional Stalin model and criticizes the new viewpoints in the textbook. This is more evident when he reads books more systematically after the Lushan Conference. He thinks that the textbook "has serious shortcomings and fundamental errors", "takes away some good things of Stalin, adds a lot of bad things of the 20th Congress, this is a big step backward"; "can be said to be a book with serious errors of Marxism". Especially the criticism of material stimulation that runs through the conversation from beginning to end reflects his attitude towards the reform of socialist countries at the time. "In this book, some basic viewpoints are wrong. The book does not emphasize politically leading, the mass line, it does not talk about walking on two legs, it emphasizes personal material benefits, and advocates material stimulation." These views, which often appear in the bud form when reading textbooks, further developed in the class struggle and anti-revisionism debate of the 1960s and developed into a complete theoretical form in the "theoretical instructions" of 1975.
Liu Shaoqi also expressed some important opinions in his speech on reading the textbook. Among them, many views are the same as Mao Zedong, but there are also not a few unique insights. For example, in terms of the driving force of socialist development, his views have somewhat retained some correct conclusions of the Eighth Decision. He believes that the contradiction between socialism and capitalism is still fierce now, but will gradually decrease in the future, "the contradiction between production and needs (including production and life) promotes social development." On the issue of proletarian dictatorship, he believes that from the trend of national functional development, the role of dictatorship is getting smaller and smaller, "and the function of organizing and educating the masses will exist for ten thousand years". On the issue of ownership, he proposed that we should pay attention to resolving internal contradictions of ownership, "under the socialist public ownership, there is still a lot to do, continuous adjustment of internal relations can make the productive forces develop better". On the issue of distribution according to work, he believes that "material stimuli are still necessary, but they cannot rely solely on material stimuli", and so on.
From the imitation of the Soviet model in 1953 to breaking through the Soviet model and pursuing its own path in 1956, then returning to the classics during the "Great Leap Forward", and revisiting the "Problems of Socialist Economics in the USSR" during the rectification of "leftist" tendencies, returning to the Stalinist model, all the way to selectively choosing and evaluating during the reading of the third edition of the textbook, it's only from the specific perspective of reading that we can see, to a certain extent, how Mao Zedong and other central leaders experienced the choices among three types - the classic model, the Stalinist model, and the Soviet model with some reformist elements, despite the minimal differences between the latter two - and went through the process of acknowledging, breaking through, and returning to the Stalinist model. Although the process appears complex and chaotic in form, but when looking at the relationship with the traditional model, what we encounter are only branches and leaves, while its main body remains untouched. As Mao Zedong said, our principles are the same as those in the Soviet Union, but our methods are different. Between the two Soviet models, we lean more towards the original Stalin model. Between traditional Marxism and Marxism being modernized, it seems we favor the former. Practices such as the "Great Leap Forward", although ostensibly breakthroughs of the Soviet model, were more radical than the Soviet model and, in reality, were regression compared to the original model - especially in relation to the reforms already initiated.
Whether it's initiating the "Great Leap Forward" or correcting "leftist" tendencies for nearly nine months, the call to study and action on Marxism is a common thread. However, practice has proved that general appeal or general study of Marxism is far from enough to avoid dogmatism, pragmatism, and formalism. What's more important is the attitude towards Marxism, how to promote the modernization of Marxism in line with the times, and how to combine such modern Marxism with China's realities, in order to realize the Sinicization of Marxism under new historical conditions.
IV. Democratization and Sinicization of Marxism.
1. Interruption of the Democratization Process and the Reversal of the "Anti-Left"
In late July 1959, the steadily progressing rectification of "leftist" tendencies came to an abrupt halt in the second half of the Lushan Conference. The ensuing "anti-rightist" movement not only had serious political and economic consequences, but it also once again thwarted the budding process of sinicization of Marxism that emerged during the nine months of rectifying the "left." The reversal attracted researcher's enduring attention because it came precisely at a time of increasing awareness of the mistakes made in the "Great Leap Forward" and "People's Commune" movements, deeper understanding of the national conditions, and some progress in the understanding of modern Marxism. In terms of the entire Party, though awareness had developed and problems had been identified, there were still reversals in the face of new circumstances, a situation that occurred several times in the fifties and sixties.
For example, when summarizing the lessons of the "Great Leap Forward" in the early 1960s, Mao Zedong had deeply felt that the lack of democracy both inside and outside the Party was an important factor that could not be avoided. Hence, he started his speech at the Seven Thousand People Conference by saying: "The focus is on the issue of democratic centralism," emphasizing "a full democratic life is required both inside and outside the Party." However, this strong desire did not change the later deterioration of democratic life within and outside the Party. Similarly, in May 1963, Mao Zedong added a section called "Where Does Correct Thinking Come from?" in the programmatic document of "Four Cleans," emphasizing that correct thinking could only come from social practice. Yet, this did not prevent repeated mistakes in assessing the situation of class struggle during the "Four Clean" movement. Again, during the "Cultural Revolution," he repeatedly urged the whole Party and nation to study Marx and Lenin's works, but the basic principles of Marxism were distorted unprecedentedly in these ten years, and so on. The reasons for these include the historical limitations of understanding and the effect of some random factors, but more importantly, the lack of democracy both within and outside the Party, and the defects of the state's political system. Here, it introduces another basic element of the sinicization of Marxism - the system factor. Furthermore, the Lushan Conference proved that under socialist conditions, the systemic factor seems to play a more significant role than the previous two factors.
Just as the first historical leap of Marxism's Sinicization during the democratic revolution, which was based on weakening and eventually breaking free from the highly centralized Communist Internationale 'blindly leading' China, gaining a certain independent thinking 'democratic rights', under socialist conditions, the Sinicization of Marxism necessarily links with extensive intra-Party democracy, with the liberation of thought and theoretical innovation, etc. The ‘second leap’ inevitably depends more directly on the democratization process in China. For the innovation and development of Marxism, democracy is as indispensable as water and air. Moreover, such democracy must be an endogenous democracy in a system based on relatively developed productivity and a market economy, not merely a style of democracy.
The 'Great Leap Forward' movement, the People's Commune movement, and the reversal of the Lushan Conference were first the result of the undermining of the principle of collective leadership of the party and democratic centralism and the product of the setback in the process of democratizing China. When democracy becomes a scarce commodity, not only is there no possibility of a 'second leap', even 'telling the truth' seems precious. During the nearly nine-month correction of the 'leftist' course, Mao Zedong felt more and more deeply that there was a problem with cadres not daring to honestly reflect the situation and put forward different opinions to their superiors. In the early April 1959 Seventh Central Committee of the Eighth Party Congress, he called for learning from Hai Rui to tell the truth, he even said: our comrades are not as brave as Hai Rui. Later that month, in his 'Party Internal Communication' written directly to cadres at all levels below the province to the production team, he emphasized the issue of telling the truth: "Honest people, people who dare to tell the truth, ultimately, are beneficial to the people's cause, and don't hurt themselves." After that, central leaders such as Liu Shaoqi also emphasized this issue when summarizing experience. "In recent years, the democratic centralism in our party life and national life has been greatly weakened, in some places, it has even been brutally destroyed." "Looking at the intentions of the leadership and speaking, what you ask for, what you like, he reflects that side of the situation to you, I'm afraid this situation is quite common, in many places it has become a bad habit." "Our party life has been abnormal these past few years. ‘Only saying three parts to people, not casting all of one’s heart’, this phenomenon is very dangerous." The ever-increasing and incurable "five wind", is nothing more than an external manifestation of system diseases that have been strengthened by anti-rightism.
2. The drawbacks of the traditional system hinder the progress of the Sinicization of Marxism.
It is generally believed that the traditional Stalinist model has the following basic characteristics: a highly concentrated power structure and decision-making system ruled by a single party; the party and government are not separated, the state and enterprises are not separated, and the party and state directly manage enterprises through state power and administrative orders, regulate economic operation, and allocate social resources; a property right structure based on a single public ownership system and a planned economic system that primarily excludes market mechanisms; a large, omnipotent, top-down, hierarchical authorization leadership system; a leading official ideology at the core of Marxism with powerful mobilization ability and a strict party organization, and so on. At the early stage of socialist construction, this system, which emphasizes unity, obedience, uniformity, monism, and the mobilization of politics and spirituality, has a powerful social mobilization function and resource allocation ability. It vigorously promoted economic recovery and the development of productive forces, accomplished the initial mission of industrialization, although at a considerable cost. 
This classic socialist system also ushered in its unique problems, which are more apparent under the situation of delayed reforms: blind pursuit of public ownership of the means of production exacerbates the obscurity of property rights, often causing officials at various levels to become property right holders at different levels, the ambiguity of the source of power makes it difficult for citizens' rights to be valued; the system structure gives the government's agents at all levels a clear advantage in decision-making process over other social groups, making central leadership in a supreme position in the decision-making system, potentially leading to various forms of autocracy; planned economy is not only creating material wealth, but also reproducing the authority of higher levels over lower levels and the obedience of lower levels to higher; hierarchical appointment system makes officials at all levels more concerned about being accountable to their superiors and their preferences, thus collecting and processing information according to their preferences becomes a chronic issue; high centralization limits the ability to reflect conditions from bottom to top and oversight capacity, reduces the enthusiasm of the mass participation, which makes it capable of quick decision-making and strong implementation, but lacks timely and effective self-regulation and error-correction mechanism; the scope of plan often exceeds economic sphere and widely infiltrates into politics, ideology and even personal life space, thus making a society already lacking vitality due to the weakening of the commodity economy difficult to get "activated" from other aspects. Moreover, the inherent centralization and hierarchy in the traditional system can not only resonate with some hierarchies in pre-capitalist societies and give rise to personality cults, but also can be further intensified under the conditions of war threat, economic difficulties, and expansion of class struggles.
In summary, this highly centralized and unified system demonstrates substantial systematic advantages and performance, but it also exhibits a lack of democracy, insufficient public participation, and a lack of social vitality, which inevitably weaken the motivation and ability for theoretical innovation. Just as it's unimaginable to have a decentralized political system and diversified ideological system under a highly concentrated planned economic system, it's also hard to imagine such a system offering ample space for academic debates, independent thinking, equal discussions, and open-mindedness. Similar to how it is challenging to nurture modern equality concepts in a hierarchical system, this system often struggles to avoid adjudicating academic debates based on administrative power or assessing truth based on status, thus rendering theoretical innovation a privilege and prerogative of the leaders, making "obedience to superiors" a compelling requirement within the system, consequently diminishing people's enthusiasm for theoretical thinking. In the traditional system, under the conditions of a weakened economic leverage, receded commodity economy, economic development with lagging reforms, and wrongful judgments on class struggle issues during the socialist era, the subjectivity and enforcement of the system become more prominent. Non-economic political and administrative enforcement means will be strengthened, the role of ideology will swell, and its uniformity, absoluteness, and compulsoriness will be more evident. Such systematic flaws seriously constrain the development of Marxism at a deep level, weaken the momentum for theoretical innovation, and are far from satisfying the conditions required for the localization and nationalization of Marxism. This is the deep-seated reason why dogmatism has prevailed in socialist countries after the war, why empty and formalistic language is rampant, why the modernization and nationalization of Marxism are difficult, and why the second leap of Sinicization of Marxism was not achieved from 1949 to 1978.
This systematic flaw is not artificially-created. It is a recurring issue in the socialist construction of backward countries. It can be explained only by the backward levels of productivity and social development at the time of seizing power, the radical traditions of political revolution, the severe international situation during the Cold War, and the catching-up strategies at the early stages of industrialization in these backward countries. It cannot be abstractly accused away from historical conditions, nor can it be critiqued in an overly moralistic way. Historical modernization worldwide indicates that unlike developed countries, non-economic factors such as politics, ideology outweigh economic factors in the start-up phase of modernization in backward countries. The country's political system and ideology played a leading role in the early stages of development. The country solves the various difficulties encountered at the initial stage of industrialization through different degrees of political and economic concentration. This choice of political-economic system is determined by the conditions of the times and the domestic environment. Generally speaking, countries that have undergone long-term revolutions or wars and have vast territories would demand higher levels of concentration of political power; the more economically backward a country was before the revolution, the more it needs strong political authority and governance in the process of industrialization, and the speed of development and superiority of heavy industry are prioritized in the catching-up strategy.
In China, a backward eastern power, a high level of centralized power was used as a strong lever for socio-economic transformation and development, after experiencing a violent political revolution. This lever relied on the socialist system and accelerated social change and social development through planned economies rather than market economies, beginning here a modernization rush amid the harsh international Cold War environment. The selection of the above system had its historical inevitability and rationality, it was a historical progression. In this process, there was both obedience to traditional socialist theory and ideology, as well as a very realistic consideration of the non-ideological economic aspect. This is just like the post-war reality, "even in western market economy countries, they also realized the need for a strong government presence for economic recovery. Even countries that have always touted liberalism often adopt economic policies led by the nation that would have been labeled 'socialist' in the past." Even some enthusiastic adherents of economic liberalism became passionate supporters of planned economies, even though they remained the enemies of socialism. Our subsequent mistakes mainly lay not in the choice of this model at the beginning of the establishment of New China, nor in the failure to propose reform tasks in a timely manner, but in deviating from the desired reform path. Under the influence of various complicated factors, a more rigid model than the Stalinist model was taken as being the development and surpassing of contemporary Marxism.
The centralized planning system met the needs of the development of productive forces at that time, but could not provide mature democracy rooted in the full development of the commodity economy and the relative development of the market economy in a short period of time. This institutional feature restricted the liberation of thought, theoretical innovation, and Sinicization of Marxism, and it could not be remedied by a general call for upholding the democratic style. Furthermore, just as the economic development of backward countries cannot be achieved overnight, the transition from a traditional system to a modern democratic system also cannot be realized in a short period of time. Thus, we are facing a dilemma: the Sinicization of Marxism must rely on a certain degree of development of socialist democratization, but this democratization staggered due to institutional defects and the expansion of class struggle. Such contradiction not only largely explains the failure to make the second leap in the Sinicization of Marxism between 1949 and 1978, but also suggests that the realization of the "second leap" can only be placed on China's reforms and the development of party and non-party democracies.
From the first Zhengzhou conference to the early stages of the 1959 Lushan conference, the severe consequences caused by the "Great Leap Forward" were initially curbed through nearly nine months of intense efforts, and the situation began to change for the better. During this period, the central leadership's intensive practical investigations and research, as well as their study of some of Marx's works, proposed some correct theoretical views and policy ideas, which have long-term importance. At that time, however, Mao Zedong and the vast majority of the party lacked sufficient awareness of the severity of the mistakes, and the "leftist" errors were far from thoroughly rectified. Such a background provided a latent possibility for the occurrence of major repetitions at the end of the Lushan conference.
The nearly nine months of correcting "left" and its repetitions reveal several regular issues in the process of Sinicization of Marxism: Firstly, the lag of Marxism's modernization and systemic reform deeply restricts the efforts to correct "left" and the progress of the Sinicization of Marxism, which is the fundamental reason for the Sinicization being in the "extension and preparation" stage from 1949 to 1978; Secondly, this lag is more of a limitation of the times; Thirdly, the development of Sinicization of Marxism under socialist conditions cannot be separated from the promotion of socialist democratization and the reform of the political system.

Chapter Eight Two Developmental Trends in Adjustment
Hu Sheng's edited "Seventy Years of the Communist Party of China" has a classic summary of the ten years of exploration from 1956 to 1966. It is: "In the ten years of exploration, the party's guiding ideology has two developmental trends. One is correct and relatively correct, which refers to some correct and relatively correct theoretical viewpoints and policy guidelines formed by the Party in the process of exploring China's own path to build socialism, and some correct and relatively correct practical experiences that have been accumulated. This mainly refers to the positive achievements obtained in the exploration around the first meeting of the Eighth National Congress in 1956, the exploration of eight or nine months before the Lushan Conference in 1959, and in the exploration of the five-year adjustment after the winter of 1960. The other is erroneous, which refers to some erroneous theoretical viewpoints, policy ideas, and practical experiences formed by the Party in the process of exploring China's own path to building socialism." "At the same time, we must realize that during these ten years of exploration, the correct and erroneous development trends are not strictly separated. Many times they are mutually infiltrating and interweaving, not only existing in the common exploration process of the whole Party, but often coexisting in the development process of one person's understanding. Sometimes this trend prevails in the whole Party, and sometimes that trend prevails, or different trends coexist in different fields simultaneously."
From the basic content and process, although there are differences in degree, duration, etc., in the year around September 1956, from November 1958 to early July 1959, and from the end of 1960 to 1966, the intrinsic basic elements and developmental trends are essentially the same. In these three periods when the correct and relatively correct development tendencies play a leading role, the context of the adjustment from the end of 1960 to 1966 is the most severe, and the time is the longest, and achievements are also the greatest (mainly manifested in the economy), but it ended with the outbreak of the "Cultural Revolution", which is similar to the end of the previous two "left-correcting". This can somewhat explain that the outcome of "left-correcting" in the overall picture can basically only be so if it does not touch the definition of major contradictions in socialism or the political system and the leadership system. The experience and outcome of these three "left-correcting" have profoundly revealed some regular phenomena in the development of socialism in our country and some regular changes in the process of Sinicization of Marxism.
Ⅰ. The whole Party vigorously promotes investigation and research, with the right line of thinking.
1. Restarting the Correction of "Leftism" in the Face of Severe Difficulties
The shift from correcting "leftism" to anti-rightism in the late stages of the Lushan Conference disrupted the just-started process of correcting the "leftist" tendencies. The extensive anti-rightist struggle rolled out nationwide not only brought serious political consequences but also broke the positive progress in correcting "leftism" economically. Under the call of "anti-rightism", a new wave of "Great Leap Forward" was once again stirred, the "Five Winds"** flourished again, and some mistakes that had been corrected since the first Zhengzhou conference developed more seriously. The repeated "Great Leap Forward" caused great damage to the productive forces, leading to severe difficulties in the national economy. 
By the second half of 1960, the continuously deteriorating situation had reached the point of no return without adjustments to the entire national economy. In November 1960, the central government issued the "Emergency Directive on Current Policy Issues in Rural People's Communes" (referred to as the "Emergency Directive"), presided over by Zhou Enlai. The core of the "Emergency Directive" was to require the whole party to make the greatest efforts to correct mistakes such as the "Communist Wind", which was in reality a restart of the correction of "leftism" disrupted by the anti-rightist struggle after the Lushan Conference, and it marked the turning point in the severe rural situation. In January 1961, at the 9th plenary session of the 8th Central Committee of the Party, it was decided to adopt the policy of "adjustment, consolidation, enrichment, and improvement" for the national economy starting from 1961. These two events marked a significant shift in the Party's guiding principles in this historical stage. The severe difficulties and losses deepened people's understanding of the mistakes of the "Great Leap Forward" and the movement to communalize the people, making them realize that breaking away from the Soviet model as in 1958, applying and "developing" Marxism in the same way, and "sinicizing" Marxism in the same way had actually deviated from the correct direction. In the late 1950s, Mao Zedong's secretary Tian Jiaying once said in a scholarly debate: If I could start socialism over, I would do it in a different way. At that time, there were probably not a few people who had this understanding. ** "五风" (Five Winds) usually refers to bureaucratism, commandism, exaggeration, rash advance, and fraudulence. It represented the major issues during the "Great Leap Forward" period in China.
In the process of adjusting policies and overcoming difficulties, the Party has continually strived to rectify the "leftist" approaches from the First Zhengzhou Conference to the early part of the Lushan Conference, and the efforts made around the First Plenary Session of the Eighth National Congress, in order to further explore China's own socialist construction path. Whether or not it was recognized at the time, this process was also one of re-identifying "what is socialism" in practice and exploring the right path for the Sinicization of Marxism.
On June 18, 1960, Mao Zedong put forth a well-known article "A Ten Year Summary", in which he gave a general summary of the experiences and lessons of revolution and construction since the founding of the People's Republic of China. Some of his views, after going off track, led to new insights and leaps, which were correct; while others continued the views of the "Great Leap Forward" and "people's commune-ization". The summary stated: "For the first eight years, we copied foreign experiences. But starting from the Ten Major Relationships proposed in 1956, we began to find a line that suited China." He admitted: "I myself have made many mistakes. Some of them were made together with the people concerned." "It seems that mistakes are inevitable." "The general line of our party is correct, and the actual work is basically well done. A part of the errors might have been unavoidable. Where are the so-called sages who are completely error-free and have completed the truth at once? The truth is not completed all at once, but gradually. We are dialectical materialists, not metaphysical epistemologists. Freedom is the knowledge of necessity and the transformation of the world. The leap from the realm of necessity to the realm of freedom is gradually completed in a long-term cognitive process. For our socialist revolution and construction, we have gained ten years of experience, and we have understood quite a bit. But for the revolution and construction in the socialist era, we still have a great deal of ignorance and a large unexplored realm of necessity. We have not yet deeply understood it. We will use the next ten years to investigate it, research it, find out its inherent laws, and use these laws to serve the socialist revolution and construction.” Mao Zedong's article places more emphasis on summarizing experience from an epistemological perspective. It is the first signal in rectifying the ideological line, which had a great influence within the Party and prepared an ideological basis for a profound summary of experience, comprehensive adjustment, and rectifying the direction of Sinicizing Marxism. However, such summary of experience is just preliminary. As mentioned before, the full correction of errors like the "Great Leap Forward" still needed several equally important factors such as inner-party democracy. But at that time, progress in this regard was not conspicuous.
2. The Party strongly advocates fact-finding studies.
At the beginning of the adjustment, Mao Zedong strictly demanded in some significant directives and instructions that the party committees at all levels must make a determination to thoroughly correct the "Five Winds" focusing on the "Communist Wind" within a few months. In a note he drafted for the central government, he admitted his own mistakes and determined to correct them, thus prompting the vast majority of cadres to realize that "it is time to make up our minds to correct our mistakes". He believed that the errors in the past few years were directly sourced from subjectivism and one-sidedness in thought methods, thus he repeatedly emphasized the need to restore the good tradition of seeking truth from facts and investigative research. He stated that our party has the tradition of seeking truth from facts, which is to combine the universal truth of Marxism-Leninism with the reality of China. However, after the founding of the People's Republic, especially in recent years, our grasp of the actual situation is not very firm. He called on the whole party to vigorously promote the trend of investigative research, starting from facts, and required that 1961 become the year of seeking truth from facts and investigative research. Following this, a letter was sent by the Central Committee entitled "About Seriously Carrying out Investigation Work" to various central bureaus, and provincial, city, and district party committees. It came with an article written by Mao Zedong in 1930, called "On Investigation Work" (later re-titled "Against Book Worship"), which had been lost for many years and was recently rediscovered. The letter required "Everything should start from reality, without investigation, there will be no right to speak, it must become the primary guideline for the thinking and action of all party cadres", and "During the investigation, do not be afraid to listen to different opinions with substance, and do not be afraid that practical tests overturn the judgments that have already been made." This effectively raised the issue of rectifying the ideological line to all party leaders. Emphasizing practice as the standard for testing truth, rather than choosing past judgments as the standard for truth, has paved the way for correcting past wrong decisions based on practical tests.
After the 9th Central Committee of the Eighth Party Congress in 1961, Mao Zedong directly organized and guided three investigation teams to conduct surveys in rural areas of Zhejiang, Hunan, and Guangdong. Liu Shaoqi, Zhou Enlai, Zhu De, and Deng Xiaoping also went to Hunan, Hebei, Sichuan, Beijing and other places to conduct in-depth research. When conducting investigations in Ningxiang County and Changsha County in Hunan, Liu Shaoqi sincerely apologized to the members of the community, saying that the central government had made mistakes and that they were sorry to everyone; but in order to rectify the mistakes, it was necessary to understand the actual situation and hoped everyone would help him with providing a true picture. After the initial investigation, he was more explicit, stating: "The canteen was pushed ahead by force, it is very unpopular. On this issue, we made a mistake, we insisted on it blindly for three years, and we didn't understand. A canteen like this should have collapsed long ago." After in-depth research, Liu Shaoqi felt that the main reason for the difficulties in the local countryside was not natural disasters, but mistakes in our work, namely what the local peasants referred to as "three parts natural disaster, seven parts man-made disaster". During Zhou Enlai's investigation in Hebei, a community member bluntly told him: "These two years of life are getting worse every year", "If this continues for two more years, even you will have nothing to eat". After the investigation, Zhou Enlai put forward several main issues in the people's communes in his telephone report to Mao Zedong: most or even all community members wanted to go home to cook, they disagreed with the supply system, the community members urgently requested a return to the practice of work-points based on advanced cooperative societies, etc. Less than a year ago, issues such as canteens, supply systems, and ownership of people's communes were all treated as socialist positions that must be defended, all received high affirmation from Mao Zedong, and were regarded as the focus of the struggle between socialism and capitalism. However, during the in-depth investigations by the entire party, these seemingly unshakeable things were denied one after another.
In accordance with Mao Zedong's instructions, the trend of investigation and research was vigorously promoted throughout the party. The leaders of central bureaus and provincial, city, autonomous region party committees, as well as the leaders of central, state organs and provincial, city, district party and government departments, went down and conducted key investigations at the county, community, and team levels. In-depth investigations enabled the party to gradually unify our understanding on issues such as cafeterias, supply systems, family sidelines, retained lands, etc., directly promoted the adjustment of rural policies, and drove the adjustment of other line of work.
One of the basic prerequisites for the sinicization of Marxism is a realistic understanding of the national conditions. An important reason for the occurrence of movements such as the "Great Leap Forward" is the superficial and confused understanding of these conditions. At the beginning of the adjustment, Mao Zedong and the Party Central Committee started by emphasizing investigation and research, which to some extent restored the pragmatic ideological line and laid the ideological foundation for comprehensive adjustment. It also corrected the direction of the sinicization of Marxism to a certain extent. On a basic level, this process is consistent with the correction of the "left" tendencies that began in November 1958, especially in 1956. 
II. Comprehensive Adjustment and Deepening Understanding of Socialism 
1. Adjustment of rural policy, etc.
With the continuous deepening of investigative research and the preliminary rectification of the ideological route, the adjustment of rural policies is also constantly deepening. 
In large-scale investigative studies, leaders at all levels from the central to the local areas found that despite the formulation of specific measures for implementing the "Urgent Directive on Current Policy Issues of Rural People's Communes" in various places, some places still just went through the motions, and the "Urgent Directive" itself did not completely solve the two major problems of egalitarianism within the production brigade of the people's commune and between the production brigade and the production brigade members. To systematically address these and other serious issues within the rural people's communes, including the two major forms of egalitarianism, Mao Zedong chaired the formulation of the "Regulations for the Work of Rural People's Communes (Draft)" (also known as the "Sixty Agricultural Articles") in Guangzhou in March 1961. This document was circulated to all rural party branches and commune members nationwide for their comments and suggestions for amendment. After repeated discussions and pilot studies by cadres and the masses, several major modifications were made to the "Sixty Agricultural Articles". In the revised draft issued in June of the same year, some opposition was removed, such as the partial supply system and public canteens - decisions which were greatly welcomed by farmers. These two items, referred to as "new things of communism" in 1958, caused major damage to rural productivity. The suggestion to cancel or propose the cancellation of public canteens was deemed a major sin of "rightist opportunism" in the second half of 1958 and 1959. It wasn't until the "Urgent Directive" at the end of 1960 and the initial draft of the "Sixty Agricultural Items" in March 1961 that these two items were considered "essential to do well" and "must be upheld". In September, Mao Zedong put forward another suggestion based on ideas from several provinces to decentralize the basic accounting unit of people's communes to the scale of initial societies. In a letter to the central government, he stated: "We have not completely solved the serious egalitarianism in our agriculture sector. There is still one problem left, that is, the production rights are in the small team, but the allocation rights are in the large team. This significant contradiction still restricts the enthusiasm of the masses for production. On this issue, we have spent six years in confusion (since the establishment of the senior society in 1956), and the seventh year should be a wake-up call.” According to Mao Zedong's opinion, the final revised "Sixty Agricultural Articles" stipulated: the three-level collective ownership system of rural people's communes based on production brigades is the basic system implemented over a long period.
The "Sixty Agricultural Articles" is an important document for the Party to adjust rural production relations and promote the recovery and development of agricultural production. This regulation, while maintaining the overall framework of the people's commune, corrected several prominent errors in the actual work of the village since the commune system was established and addressed the urgent issues that were of most concern to the masses at that time. Although it did not completely solve some fundamental problems in the people's commune, it played a significant role in mobilizing the enthusiasm of farmers and reviving and developing agricultural production. For a long period that followed, even during the turmoil of the "Cultural Revolution," it played a positive role in preventing the resurgence of the "Communist Wind". The major adjustments made by the party to the people's commune system from the "Urgent Directive" to the revised "Sixty Agricultural Items" not only continued after the first Zhengzhou conference in 1958, but also traced back to the efforts to adjust the internal relations of cooperatives after the climax of the agricultural cooperative movement. In a sense, it also represented a return to the initial society that was rapidly replaced by the senior society, negating the rapid escalation of rural production relations in the mid-to-late 1950s. This "regression" reflected some progress in the understanding of socialism and brought it closer to the reality of China.
During this period, with the same spirit, the Party Central Committee also started to address the policy issues of urban and rural handicraft industries and commerce. In June 1961, the "35 Articles on Handicrafts" issued by the central authorities clearly pointed out that collective ownership is the main form of ownership in the handcraft industry throughout the socialist stage, individual ownership is a necessary complement and aide to the socialist economy, and public ownership can only be partial. Transiting to public ownership too much or too early would be detrimental to production. The concurrently issued "40 Articles on Commerce" confirmed that besides state-owned business and supply and marketing cooperatives, rural markets also exist in our country's commodity movement channels at the current stage. It is a necessary supplement to the first two channels. The formulation and implementation of these policies stopped the mistakes of abolishing rural markets and small shops and peddlers, and transitioning the collective nature of handicrafts and commercial activities to public ownership since the "Great Leap Forward".
2. Industrial Adjustment
The adjustment in the industrial sector first involves slowing down the pace and lowering the targets. However, after the high targets and high speed inflated to the extreme in 1958, it was not easy to achieve this in a short time. Although the eight-character policy for adjusting the national economy was proposed in September 1960, it was not until the second half of 1961 that it gradually started to be implemented. At the Central Work Conference in September 1961, Zhou Enlai stressed that the targets should be resolutely reduced to leave margins, and this year we should be determined to cut down and reorganize. Deng Xiaoping proposed that the overall principle of adjustment is to protect agriculture, ensure the light industry market, consider defense and follow this principle to shorten the front. The “Instructions on the Current Industrial Problems” approved at the meeting pointed out that we had already lost a year's opportunity, and now we cannot hesitate anymore. We must be resolute and make a decision right away, to reduce the targets of industrial production and basic construction to truly reliable and reserved levels; in the next three years, the eight-character policy must be centered on adjustment; if this resolution is not made, and unrealistic targets continue to be adhered to, our industry and even the entire national economy will fall into a more passive and serious situation. After the meeting, with the approval of the central government, the National Planning Commission made a large adjustment to the 1961 plan. The continuous reduction of production targets is a repeated denial of the "Great Leap Forward" frenzy and a result of a deeper understanding of the national conditions. In other words, in the adjustment process to correct "leftist" errors, sinicization of Marxism took an important step in the right direction.
Another aspect of industrial adjustment is to rectify the production order disturbed by the "Great Leap Forward." The "Great Leap Forward" was a bold attempt to break the Soviet model, but due to the limitations of the level of development of backward productive forces and the misinterpretation of "freeing the mind," "breaking superstitions," and "mass movements," these attempts often turned into disdain for large-scale production by small-scale production, and the exclusion of production order by blind revolutionary enthusiasm, leading to an impact on modern industrial management and bringing many problems to enterprises: chaotic management, lax responsibility and economic accounting systems, damaged equipment, prevailing egalitarianism in the distribution system, reduced product quality and labor productivity, etc. During the adjustment period, Deng Xiaoping emphasized several times the need to rectify industrial enterprises and curb chaos. During the formulation of the "Sixty Articles on Agriculture," Mao Zedong proposed the idea of "also implementing dozens of articles in the city." Accordingly, under the chairmanship of Deng Xiaoping, Li Fuchun and Bo Yibo were responsible for sending 11 working groups to conduct investigations in many industrial and mining enterprises. Based on extensive investigation and research, after discussion and revision, the "Regulations on the Work of State-Owned Industrial Enterprises (Draft)" (abbreviated as the "Seventy Articles on Industry") was formed. After discussions at the Lushan Central Work Conference, it was issued for trial by the Central Committee in September 1961.
The "Seventy Articles on Industry" systematically summarized the experience and lessons of industrial management since the founding of New China, especially since the "Great Leap Forward," and put forward some guiding principles for the management of state-owned enterprises in our country, making many specific provisions. The regulations stipulate that the state shall implement "five determinations" for enterprises, and enterprises shall offer "five guarantees" to the state. The regulations also made detailed provisions for the operation and responsibilities of the director-general responsibility system under the leadership of the Party Committee, the workers' representative conference system, and the unified production administration command system led by the director-general. The regulations stipulate the establishment of a strict responsibility system at all levels, in all aspects, and at all links, the implementation of comprehensive economic accounting, and the pursuit of economic effects. The regulations emphasized strengthening the management of state-owned enterprises in accordance with strict directive planning system. It not only restored the rules and regulations and normal production order of industrial enterprises that were negated and disrupted by the "Great Leap Forward" movement but also established some systems that had not been established before the "Great Leap Forward," advancing the management of China's industrial enterprises towards normalization and perfection during the adjustment. After the "Seventy Articles on Industry" was issued, it was welcomed by the vast majority of cadres and workers. As a result of the implementation of this regulation, a series of necessary rules and regulations of state-owned enterprises were restored and established, playing a positive role in the adjustment, consolidation, enrichment, and advancement of the industry.
3. Adjustment in the Superstructure Field
The serious "left" deviations in the Anti-Rightist Campaign, the Great Leap Forward, and the People's Commune Movement extended to various aspects such as economic foundation, superstructure, and ideology. As a correction to these mistakes, the adjustments in the early 1960s inevitably covered all of these areas. As adjustments in the economic sector gradually deepened, adjustments in various areas such as politics, thought, science, education, culture, united front work, religion, and ethnic affairs also unfolded subsequently. 
The Anti-Rightist Campaign of 1957 caused serious damage to intellectuals in the superstructure and ideological fields. Subsequently, the Great Leap Forward and anti-rightist movements in the fields of science, education, and art led to the prevalence of overstatement and blind command, and continuous political movements greatly impacted the work in these fields. The normal work order was disrupted, and the enthusiasm of intellectuals was severely suppressed. This could not but have a negative impact on economic work.
The adjustment in the fields of science, education, and culture in the early 1960s began by formulating work regulations in science, education, and art. From the winter of 1960, under the chairmanship of Nie Rongzhen, the State Science Commission, after repeated investigations and broad consultation with the scientific community, proposed the "Fourteen Opinions (Draft) on the Current Work of Natural Science Research Institutions" (shortened to "Science Fourteen") in 1961. It was approved and put into trial after discussion by the Central Politburo in July. In the field of education, starting in 1961, the Party Group of the Ministry of Education held special symposiums to invite opinions from some college leaders and professors. Under the chairmanship of Deng Xiaoping, the Party Group of the Ministry of Education and the Central Propaganda Department drafted the "Provisional Work Regulations (Draft) for Colleges and Universities directly under the Ministry of Education" (shortened to "Higher Education Sixty"). In September, the draft was discussed and passed at the LuShan Working Conference and put into trial. While drafting the "Higher Education Sixty" draft, the Ministry of Education also began to draft the work regulations for primary and secondary school education according to the instructions of the Central Committee. They were later respectively compiled as "Temporary Work Regulations (Draft) for Full-time Secondary Schools" (shortened to "Secondary Education Fifty") and "Temporary Work Regulations (Draft) for Full-time Primary Schools" (shortened to "Primary Education Forty"), approved for trial by the Central Committee in March 1963. Under the supervision of Zhou Enlai, the Party Group of the Ministry of Culture and the Party Group of the China Federation of Literary and Art Circles drafted the "Opinions on Current Literature and Art Work (Draft)" (shortened to "Literature and Art Ten") on the basis of extensive research in the first half of 1961. Then, according to opinions from different localities, they were revised into "Literature and Art Eight", which was approved for nation-wide implementation by the Central Committee in April 1962.
These regulations in the fields of science, education, and literature summarize the experiences and lessons since the founding of New China, especially since the "Great Leap Forward". They not only affirm the achievements, but also particularly point out the shortcomings and mistakes in the work of the past three years. They propose a series of policies to adjust relationships, stabilize the work order, and motivate intellectuals, and make specific provisions accordingly. A central issue of these regulations is to adjust the relationship between the party and intellectuals. Since the "Great Leap Forward", there have been some excessive and wrong criticisms among intellectuals, such as "raising the white flag", criticizing "white expertise" and breaking the "bourgeois academic authority". Some party members and cadres in cultural and educational institutions even believe that since the majority of intellectuals belong to the bourgeoisie, they are the targets of revolution in the socialist revolutionary period. After the "Anti-Rightist" struggle in 1959, this "left" mistake tendency further expanded. In response to this situation, these regulations particularly emphasize the correct treatment of knowledge and intellectuals in order to adjust the relationship between the party and intellectuals. The central government pointed out in its comment that doing a good job with intellectuals is crucial; in recent years, some comrades have had some one-sided understanding on the issue of dealing with knowledge and intellectuals, and there has been some rough growth, which must cause serious attention to correct the direction; in academic work, it is necessary to let a hundred flowers bloom and a hundred schools of thought contend, and not wear hats or wave sticks or seize braids, fully motivate the majority of intellectuals, so that they can be at ease and responsible for their work; it requires all departments and units that have intellectual work to review the criticism carried out among intellectuals after the anti-rightist struggle, if the criticism is right, of course, it must be adhered to, if the criticism is wrong or partially wrong, it is necessary to distinguish the facts, clarify the right from the wrong, correct the mistakes, and remove the wrong hats, so as to eliminate thought knots, promote democracy and enhance unity.
Another important content of these regulations is to implement the guideline of "letting a hundred flowers bloom and a hundred schools of thought contend" in scientific and literary works, which is closely related to the adjustment of the relationship between the party and intellectuals. These regulations propose: on academic issues in natural sciences, different schools of thought and academic views must be encouraged to freely explore, debate, and compete. In philosophy and social sciences, historical and cultural heritage must be critically inherited, and all valuable aspects must be absorbed; on various academic issues within the people and among Marxists, different opinions must be allowed to be freely discussed. In literary creation, writers and artists have complete freedom to choose and handle themes, advocate for diverse styles, and develop different art genres; in literary criticism, they have the freedom to discuss and criticize different opinions on literary and art works and theories, and also have the freedom to withhold opinions and make counter-criticism. These regulations also separately discuss and stipulate a series of specific policies for implementing the "double hundred" policy, emphasizing that it is not allowed to use political struggle methods, and even less allowed to use enemy struggle methods to handle different views on academic and artistic issues within the people.
Addressing the chaotic phenomena of excessive production labor and social activities in the fields of science, education and art since the "Great Leap Forward", as well as the problems in business such as exaggeration and blind commanding, as well as the prevalently existing issues wherein everything is arranged by the party organization, excessive interference in business and administrative work by the party committee, and management and business personnel afraid to work at will, these regulations also clearly stipulate that the fundamental task of scientific research institutions is to produce results, train talents, and serve socialism; there must be assurance of stability in scientific research work, ensuring that at least five-sixths of the researchers' time is dedicated to business work; schools should focus on teaching, and students on mastering their studies; politics should not interpret serving the arts too narrowly, art should not only inspire the people's revolutionary fervor and elevate people's ideological awareness, but also provide them with rightful artistic enjoyment and healthy entertainment, all products that can meet any of these requirements serve the people and socialism; the main task of party committees of scientific research institutions, colleges and universities, and art departments is to implement the party's policies and prevent micro-management and autocracy, and so on. 
The formulation and implementation of these regulations have a good impact among intellectuals inside and outside the party. It has relieved the tense relationship between the party and intellectuals, restored regular work order, and played a significant role in shaping its own set of policies and specific systems from summarizing experiences in the development of science, education, and culture in Chinese socialism. Although the issue of the anti-rightist struggle has not been resolved, the majority of intellectuals feel more relieved at this time, and conditions for focusing on their work have been generally met. 
III. After the 7,000 People Congress and subsequent further adjustments.
1. Reflections on the Conference of Seven Thousand
After more than a year of adjustment, the severe economic difficulties caused by the "Great Leap Forward" began to turn around, the order of production was somewhat restored, and the adjustment of various relations was also initially launched. However, the overall situation remained very grim. Faced with this situation, there were still various questions and disagreements within and outside the Party in terms of ideological understanding. In order to further summarize the experiences and lessons since 1958, unify and raise the understanding of the whole Party, enhance unity, mobilize the whole Party to more resolutely implement the adjustment policy, and strive to overcome serious difficulties, the Central Committee of the Party held an enlarged Central Working Conference in Beijing from January 11 to February 7, 1962, historically known as the "Conference of Seven Thousand".
In his written report at the conference, Liu Shaoqi emphatically analyzed the main shortcomings and mistakes that occurred in the work and the causes of their occurrence. As for the causes of the mistakes, he pointed out that on the one hand, it was due to the lack of experience in construction work, and on the other hand, many leading comrades in the Party were not humble and cautious enough, violating the traditions of the Party's seeking truth from facts and mass line, weakening the principle of democratic centralism, which prevented the Party from discovering and correcting the mistakes as early as possible. In his speech at the conference, he made some important views on a few issues that caused the most doubts within the Party: we should recognize that we are currently facing considerable difficulties in the economic field; regarding achievements and mistakes, we have often compared shortcomings, mistakes and achievements to the relationship between one finger and nine fingers in the past, but now, perhaps we cannot apply this metaphor everywhere, it is likely that it's the relationship between three fingers and seven fingers nationally, and in some regions, mistakes might even be seven fingers; regarding the causes of economic difficulties, on the one hand, it is due to natural disasters, and to a large extent, it is due to mistakes in work, and in some places it is "three parts natural disaster, seven parts man-made disaster"; regarding the "Three Red Banners", we are not going to abolish any of them now, but keep them all. There are still some issues that are not yet clear, but after five years, ten years of summarizing experiences, we can make further conclusions. In the context of it being difficult to criticize the "Three Red Banners" positively and it being difficult to discuss them in formal occasions at that time, Liu Shaoqi's reserved attitude was warmly supported by many people because he reflected the views of many people at that time. Liu Shaoqi's written report and speech were warmly welcomed by everyone.
In his long speech on January 30, Mao Zedong primarily discussed democratic centralism. He stressed that ample democratic centralism was needed within and outside the party to allow the public to voice their opinions. As democratic centralism is written into the party constitution and national constitution, it is unfeasible to confront our difficulties without it. When mistakes are made, it's important to engage in self-criticism and allow others to critique us. He conducted a self-criticism, stating, "I am responsible for all the errors made by the central government. Whether directly or indirectly, as I am the chairman." He also emphasized that there is still a great deal of blindness in the construction of socialism. There are many aspects of the socialist economy that we have yet to comprehend. We must strive to study and understand it, gradually deepening our understanding in practice. He noted that with China's large population, weak foundation, and economic backwardness, it would be impossible to greatly develop the productivity and surpass the most advanced capitalist countries in the world without more than a hundred years. For this cause, we must integrate the universal truth of Marxism-Leninism with the specific realities of both China's socialist construction and future global revolutions, gradually comprehending the objective laws of struggle from practice. Thinking long-term can be beneficial whereas short-term thinking can be harmful. Reflecting on the three-year "Great Leap Forward", he admitted there was much he did not understand about socialist construction, demonstrating his new insights. This greatly contributed to further summarizing construction practices over the years and correcting mistakes in work.
If we consider that Mao Zedong emphasized pragmatism and research at the beginning of 1961, highlighting a fundamental element in the sinicization of Marxism, then nearly a year later, following some progress, Mao Zedong again emphasized the rectification of "leftist" mistakes and the realization of another essential element of sinicization — democracy. The anti-rightist movement severely damaged democracy within and outside the party, a significant cause of serious mistakes made during economic construction. Without addressing these mistakes, other adjustments cannot begin. Acknowledging and addressing these errors aligns with the laws of understanding and meets the needs for deeper correction. However, the limitations of the form of democracy mentioned by Mao in the meeting are clear: First, without a correct understanding of the main contradictions in socialist society, it's impossible to have authentic socialist democracy. Second, understanding democracy merely as "letting the public speak" or "allowing criticism" is insufficient. This top-down given democracy, although better than silencing, can be withdrawn at any time under various pretenses due to changes in leadership perspective and attitude. Such democracy is a considerable distance from authentic socialist democracy. True socialist democracy is not granted by any individual — it is born from levels of productivity, economic foundations, and in high-level constructions, as inviolable rights of party members and the public. This limited type of democracy played a role in early phases of readjustment, but cannot guarantee the demand for further in-depth corrections. Because the more profound the adjustment, the more apparent the disagreements on "what is socialism" under the current class struggle, the more likely these disagreements will be elevated to the "heights" of class struggle, surpassing the boundaries of democracy and ending certain readjustments. The democracy required by the sinicization of Marxism cannot be this limited form of democracy.
Deng Xiaoping and Zhou Enlai gave speeches at the congress, representing the central secretariat and the state council to make self-criticism respectively. In his speech, Deng Xiaoping pointed out that the leadership of the party and the party's work had serious shortcomings; for the whole party, the good traditions of the party have been weakened to some extent, especially the neglect and harm of the traditions of seeking truth from facts, the mass line, and the democratic centralism, which have brought great danger to the work. Zhou Enlai pointed out in his speech: the work in recent years often only pays attention to subjective needs, regardless of objective possibilities; only pays attention to current demands, with no long-term plans, resulting in haste makes waste. He emphasized the need to tell the truth, show real enthusiasm, do practical work, and achieve effective results. Zhu De and Chen Yun also focused on correcting the "left" mistakes and the democratic life within the party in their speeches.
The 7,000-people Congress achieved important results under the historical conditions at that time. The meeting promoted democracy within the party to a certain extent and was essentially an adjustment of interpersonal relations within the party. On this basis, the meeting adopted a more pragmatic attitude towards shortcomings and errors, and summarized the lessons learned in a more objective and in-depth manner. The democratic spirit and self-criticism spirit of the congress encouraged the whole party, made the majority of party members feel more comfortable, and played a positive role in mobilizing the whole party to unite and struggle to overcome difficulties. Due to historical constraints, the meeting still affirmed the "Three Red Banners" in principle; as for the "Anti-Rightist" struggle, only the party members who were wrongly criticized below were identified and rehabilitated, but Peng Dehuai was not rehabilitated; there were still disagreements within the party in the estimation of the situation and the analysis of the causes of the difficulties. These all indicate that under the conditions at that time, the cleaning up of the mistakes of "Great Leap Forward" and "Anti-Rightist" from the guiding thought could not but have some limitations.
The anti-"left" posture, depth, and achievements of the 7,000-people Congress were in sharp contrast with the criticism of "Anti-Rush", "Great Leap Forward" and People's Commune movement in the first half of 1958, and the "Anti-Rightist" movement after August 1959. These achievements were due to the whole party's earnest lessons learned from failures, the discarding of some misguided socialist ideas, and the addition of some socialist ideas suitable for China's national conditions; they benefited from the relative activism of democracy within the party in serious difficulties. After the 7,000-people congress, the whole party still basically faced two fundamental choices: one was to continue the efforts to correct the "left" since the end of 1960, to continue the healthy development momentum; the other was to greatly discount the adjustments, or even give up halfway, because they could not touch some more fundamental traditional ideas. The reasons for this, in addition to certain temporal limitations in understanding, include more direct systemic effects. This has been fairly evident in the interruption of the "Anti-Rush" and the nine month-long correction of the "Left".
2. Further adjustments after the 7,000-people Congress.
In the period following the Conference of 7000 People, economic and political adjustments were still further developing, achieving more profound results in some areas.
Soon after the Conference of 7000 People, the Central Committee found that the estimates of the severity of the economic situation were still inadequate. According to a new analysis provided by the financial sector, Liu Shaoqi pointed out at an expanded meeting of the Politburo Standing Committee in late February 1962 that we are currently in a "critical period" and if decisive measures are not taken, the national economy will further deteriorate. Chen Yun gave systematic opinions at the meeting, which were warmly received. Based on these spirits, at the expanded meeting of the Central Standing Committee held in May, a plan was discussed and approved for a radical adjustment to the national economy: drastically reduce the number of staff, further reduce the scale of basic construction, shrink the industrial front, further strengthen agriculture in all aspects, strengthen the leadership power at the rural grassroots level, and so on. As a result of these decisive measures, after the hard struggle of the people across the country, the adjustment work quickly achieved results. By the end of 1962, the national economic situation began to turn for the better: agricultural production began to pick up, the proportion of agriculture, light industry, and heavy industry improved, the state's financial income and expenditure balanced, the market supply and demand tension eased, and the lives of urban and rural people began to improve.
The continuous deepening of adjustment work led to some liberation of people's thinking, and some previously suppressed views and practices became active again. In addition, the severe economic situation prompted people to seek various ways to overcome the difficulties. It was against this background that various forms of agricultural production responsibility system reappeared and rapidly expanded. After the basic accounting unit of rural people's communes was delegated to production teams equivalent to the original primary society, the enthusiasm of peasants greatly increased. But they were not satisfied with this "retrogression," hoping to more closely link their benefits with labor through more effective forms of responsibility system. Thus, various forms of "contracting production to households" spontaneously emerged in many places again. Since the cooperation, whenever the Party proposes to adjust the production relations within the collective economy in agriculture, there are always peasants spontaneously "contracting production to households". Despite repeated prohibitions, it reappears whenever the opportunity arises. This eloquently proves that family operation, as an internal level of the collective economy, is in many ways suitable for the productivity situation of China's rural areas dominated by manual labor and for the needs of most Chinese peasants. Regarding the implementation of "contracting production to households", there were different views within the Party from the beginning. In November 1961, the Central Committee affirmed in a directive that "contracting production to households" and some disguised individual farming practices were "not in line with the principles of socialist collective economy" and required "a change". But by the first half of 1962, not only was "contracting production to households" not really stopped, but it showed more and more vitality. By July of that year, more than 20% of rural areas in the country had implemented various forms of "contracting production to households". The effects were generally good and welcomed by the peasant masses and many grassroots cadres.
Several leaders from the Central Committee and relevant departments of the party, such as Liu Shaoqi, Chen Yun, Deng Xiaoping, and Deng Zihui, also expressed their active support for it during their investigations and research. Liu Shaoqi stated that implementing a responsibility system where one household is responsible for a plot of land, or one group is responsible for a larger area, is entirely feasible. He asserted the need to legitimize the "production unto households" practice. After investigating, Deng Zihui suggested in his written comment to the Central Committee in May 1962, that it should be permissible for members to operate with a degree of "small freedom, small private ownership". He believed that this system would be the most effective at encouraging enthusiasm and responsibility from farmers at the current stage of agricultural productivity. He pointed out that establishing a production responsibility system is the fundamental link in promoting collective production and consolidating collective ownership in the future. After his investigation, Chen Yun considered that "production unto households" is an extraordinary measure for an extraordinary period. He even proposed that "production unto households" is not thorough enough, and it would be better to "divide fields among households". In late June of the same year, Deng Xiaoping said during a briefing by the East China Bureau's Rural Office that a variety of methods could be implemented in areas where the farmers are living in hardship. He said that the "responsibility field" is a new thing and can be tried. In July, he quoted a famous Sichuanese folk proverb often cited by Liu Bocheng, which states, "it doesn't matter if a cat is yellow or black, as long as it catches mice, it’s a good cat". He indicated, "The best form of production relationship depends on what can restore and develop agricultural production in a particular location faster and easier. What form should we adopt? It is whichever form the masses prefer and we should make the illegal legal." The views and methods embodied in these plain and understandable language indeed later became the theoretical cornerstone of reform and opening up - the standard of productivity.
In terms of adjusting political relations, at the Supreme State Conference, the Third Session of the Second National People's Congress, and the Third Session of the Third CPPCC National Committee held between March and April 1962, Liu Shaoqi, representing the CPC Central Committee, briefed non-party democratic personnel on the spirit of the Meeting of 7,000 Cadres, explaining the shortcomings and mistakes of domestic work over the past few years, the responsibility for which lies with the Communist Party of China, and primarily with the CPC Central Committee. Zhou Enlai made a sincere self-criticism on behalf of the State Council on the issues in the government's work. Democratic party members attending the meetings were moved by the Chinese Communist Party's open-mindedness, willingness to admit mistakes, and serious correction of mistakes, expressing their willingness to work together with the Communist Party to overcome difficulties. In order to further strengthen and improve the work of the United Front, the Central United Front Department of the CPC, the National People's Congress Ethnic Affairs Committee, and the State Ethnic Affairs Commission respectively convened national United Front work meetings and national ethnic work meetings in April and May 1962. The two meetings reviewed some serious "left-leaning" mistakes made in implementing the united front, national, and religious policies since the "Great Leap Forward" and studied guidelines, policies, and specific measures to address these issues. It was pointed out that the Party must take the initiative to adjust relations with the intellectuals, the commercial and industrial sectors, democratic parties, democrats, religious circles, ethnic minorities, returnees, and other patriots, promote democracy, strengthen unity, fully mobilize all positive factors, act in concert, overcome current difficulties, and complete the task of adjusting the national economy. The National United Front Conference also proposed to carry out identification and redress work for non-party people who were harmed in political movements; to take care of people who have been labeled as rightists and people who are still wearing labels; and not to discriminate against the families and children of people labeled as rightists in terms of education, employment, and life. At the same time, the CPC Central Committee also made corresponding adjustments to its policy on overseas Chinese. The National Ethnic Work Seminar proposed that adjusting ethnic relations and other relations in accordance with central policies is the overriding task in ethnic minority areas during the adjustment period, and all other undertakings should serve this overall goal. By adjusting ethnic relations, strengthening ethnic unity, strengthening unity with all patriotic democrats, strengthening the worker-peasant alliance, mobilizing the enthusiasm of people of all ethnic groups, and concentrating resources to restore and develop production. Prior to this, the Central Ethnic Affairs Commission made a number of adjustments to the policies in minority areas in the "Regulations on Some Policies for Minority Pastoral Areas and People's Communes in Pastoral Areas (Draft)" (abbreviated as "40 Regulations on Pastoral Work") drafted in 1961, and strengthened support for these areas.
After the conference of 7,000 people, with the comprehensive adjustment of the national economy, the adjustment of the Party's policy towards intellectuals is also further deepening. The regulations on science, education, literature, and art formulated and implemented in 1961 gradually corrected the direction of the work of intellectuals and initially mobilized the enthusiasm of the majority of intellectuals. The deepening of this adjustment inevitably involves a new scientific judgment on the class attribute of intellectuals in our country. After the anti-rightist struggle in 1957, the judgment on the class attribute of intellectuals changed, asserting that they were all "bourgeois intellectuals." This "label" made it difficult to mobilize the enthusiasm of intellectuals. Between February and March 1962, Zhou Enlai, at the scientific and technological work conference and the literary and artistic work conference held in Guangzhou, resolutely restored the Party's basic estimation of the class conditions of Chinese intellectuals made at the 1956 intellectual conference. He confirmed that the vast majority of Chinese intellectuals have become intellectuals of the working people, not intellectuals of the bourgeoisie. In his speech at the meeting, Chen Yi emphasized that after 12 years of testing, especially the severe hard tests in the recent years, prove that the majority of intellectuals in our country are patriotic, believe in the Communist Party, and share the same joys and sorrows with the Party and its people. After eight, ten, twelve years, if we still cannot discern a person, then the Communist Party is really short-sighted. He announced to take off the "hat" for the majority of intellectuals ("bourgeois intellectuals' hat") and put on the "crown" ("working people's intellectuals' crown"). At the third session of the Second National People's Congress held later, Zhou Enlai announced this scientific judgment again in the government's work report. The further adjustment in the policy towards intellectuals greatly stimulated the enthusiasm of intellectuals, making the spring of 1962 an unforgettable day for them.
At the same time as adjusting the political relationships outside the Party, the Central Committee also took important steps to adjust the political relationships within the Party. In June 1961, the Central Committee issued instructions for the review and redress of party members and cadres who had been criticized and disciplined in the "anti-rightist" movement in recent years. After the conference of 7,000 people, the Central Committee accelerated the process of this work. In view of uneven progress, in April 1962, the Central Secretariat, under the chairmanship of Deng Xiaoping, formulated and issued the "Notice on Accelerating the Review Work of Party members and cadres". Subsequently, according to the experience of the army, it suggested to solve the problem at once for the cadres at the county level and below, that is, to reinstate all the cadres who had been mistaken in the past, except for a few who have serious problems, without leaving a "tail", so as to solve the problem at a time. In this way, the work of review and correction inside and outside the Party was quickly carried out comprehensively. By August 1962, more than 6 million cadres, party members and masses across the country had been vindicated.
In addition, in terms of foreign affairs, there was also a requirement for correcting "leftist" politics. In the spring of 1962, Wang Jiaxiang, head of the United Front Department, suggested to the Central Committee that in order to gain time to overcome difficulties and accelerate construction, it was necessary to strive for a relative easing of foreign relations; to pay attention to strategies in the struggle against the United States, the Soviet Union and others; foreign aid must be realistic and according to capabilities; to pay attention to the peace movement, not to mention only the national liberation movement, but also the peace movement, and so on. These opinions advocate a moderate policy in foreign affairs, which is a correction of the tendency that has already emerged to expand the target in international struggles and raise the pitch.
In summary, in the half-year after the conference of 7,000 people, the adjustment work showed an increasingly strong development momentum. This is not only reflected in the broader coverage, but also in the depth achieved in practice and theory. It is in the process of continuous deepening of the adjustment that the sinicization of Marxism has made some substantial progress.
If this healthy momentum could develop smoothly, then the later "Cultural Revolution" would not have occurred, and perhaps China's reform could have started earlier and more smoothly. However, did the cognitive and system conditions at that time provide the conditions for this momentum to continue to develop? 
IV. Contradictory Pattern Caused by Different Economic and Political Development Directions 
1. Adjustment is to correct the "left"
The adjustment in the early 1960s began with the urgent severe economic difficulties at the time, but it inevitably embarked on a path different from the "Three Red Flags" of 1958, and it actually formed a new climax of the sinicization of Marxism in China after the founding of New China.
Starting from the issuance of the "Emergency Directive Letter" at the end of 1960, through a large-scale investigation, exploration, and promotion by the whole party in 1961, it was fully deployed by the time of the 7,000 people's conference at the end of 1961. After the 7,000-people conference, whether in terms of breadth or depth, the adjustment showed a trend of rapid development. The continuously deepening adjustment not only achieved noticeable results economically in a short time, but also corrected to varying degrees the significant errors made since 1958 in the areas of production relations, superstructure, and ideology, gradually revealing characteristics different from the "Great Leap Forward" and the People's Commune model, embarking on a path of combining Marxism with Chinese reality, and gradually correcting the correct direction of Sinicization of Marxism.
The correction of the main contradiction of socialist society after the anti-rightist movement in 1957, and the "Three Red Flags" in 1958, were all considered to be transcending the Soviet model, important developments of Marxism, and new achievements of Sinicization of Marxism. However, in its pursuit of hasty success in terms of construction speed, pursuit of "big commune and two publics" in terms of ownership, establishment of class contradiction as the main contradiction of socialism, and an even more eager transition to communism due to a shortsighted estimation of the historical stage of socialism and so on, it was essentially an extreme and rigid socialist model more than the traditional Soviet model. It indeed had distinct Chinese characteristics, but it was both detached from China's reality and overlooked the inevitable trend of the modernization of Marxism, even considering the correct development direction of contemporary Marxism as revisionism, and thus inevitably deviated from the correct direction of Sinicization of Marxism. Based on the disconnection from the reality of China, it adopted dogmatic interpretations of the conclusions regarding socialism and communism by classical Marxist writers nearly a hundred years ago, and applied concrete experiences from the revolutionary war years, supplemented by ideals and practices related to the utopian society in traditional Chinese culture.
The essence of the adjustment in the early 1960s was, to a large extent, a correction of the "leftist" errors in the economic and political fields since the "Great Leap Forward" in 1958, and a denial and correction of a wrong perception of socialism: the new understanding and summary of the development stage of socialism by central leaders such as Mao Zedong and Liu Shaoqi and the economic adjustment were denials of "high speed" and hasty success; The "Sixty Agricultural Articles" denied "big commune and two publics", the supply system, and the public canteen; The "Seventy Industrial Articles" denied disrupting the production order, the party organization handling everything, blurring the separation of government and enterprise, disregarding economic laws, neglecting economic results, and ignoring material interest since the "Great Leap Forward"; The "Fourteen Science Articles" denied ignoring research laws and disrespecting scientific and technical personnel; The "Eight Literary and Art Articles" denied disrespect for artistic laws and literary and art workers; The "Sixty Higher Education Articles" denied ignorance of teaching laws and contempt for intellectuals, and so on.
As the adjustments deepen, this denial and amendment is not only more in-depth in content, but also shows an accelerating trend. The more realistic appraisal of the grim economic situation after the 7,000-Person Congress is the foundation for further deepening of adjustments. At the same time, it objectively emphasizes the absurdity of the "Great Leap Forward". The speeches of Zhou Enlai and Chen Yi at the Guangzhou Conference on the class attributes of intellectuals were denials of the incorrect characterizations of intellectuals after 1957. In the first half of 1962, the work of screening party members and cadres for rehabilitation under the leadership of Deng Xiaoping was largely a denial of the "anti-rightist" inclination of 1959, and had begun to touch on the expanded anti-rightist struggle of 1957. In the spring of 1962, Wang Jiaxiang's suggestion to the Central Committee on foreign relations was a correction of the "leftist" mistakes in foreign affairs work at that time. In the first half of 1962, the "household contracting system," which was rapidly developing in many rural areas, broke through the basic principle of "three-tier ownership, with the team as the foundation" in the "Sixty Articles on Agriculture." It also implied an amendment to the hastily and coarse advancement of the socialist transformation of agriculture in 1956. Deng Xiaoping's support for the household contracting system, encapsulated in the "cat theory," essentially contained the replacement of the relationship of production and ideological standards of 1958 with the standard of productive forces. Compared with the two times the "leftist" tendencies were corrected in the first half of 1956 and the second half of 1958 to the first half of 1959, the specific adjustment measures and insights in these five years indicate that the adjustments are no longer limited to the correction of the extreme socialist model of 1958 and the restoration of the traditional model. They demonstrate an effort to surpass the USSR model and implement some form of reform, which held a seat in the torrent of socialist reforms at the time.
However, the limitations of the adjustment are also apparent. This is mainly reflected in: First, most significant advancements in adjustments are reflected in the economic aspect. In comparison, progress in the political and political system aspects is often very limited, and the development between the two is asynchronous and unbalanced. Second, some deep-seated basic issues related to "what is socialism" have not yet broken through, and until these issues are resolved, all other adjustment achievements are not solid. It is this unsynchronized development of politics and economics that provides conditions for further erroneous or relatively erroneous developments.
However, under the conditions at the time, whether in China or in other socialist countries such as the Soviet Union, the conditions for comprehensive reform were far from mature. Although the traditional model was shaken, some of its basic aspects were still regarded as sacred and unquestionable, and were the consensus of the whole party, which was the case in socialist countries at the time. Against this backdrop, a deep adjustment could not fundamentally correct the "leftist" mistakes in the guiding ideology of the party, and there were still many differences in views on the situation and policy within the party, especially within the party leadership. Under the premise that the criticism and blame for the "anti-rash advancement" of 1956, the expanded anti-rightist struggle of 1957, the "Three Red Flags" of 1958, and the Lushan Conference of 1959 could not be touched in any way, the deepening of the adjustment and the development of understanding inevitably led to differences. In the face of severe difficulties and when the adjustment had not yet touched on some more fundamental issues, these contradictions and differences either did not fully emerge or temporarily lay dormant. As the situation gradually improved, with the further deepening of domestic policy adjustments, coupled with the further intensification of the Sino-Soviet debate at the time, and the intensification of tense relations with some neighboring countries and regions, differences in the party's evaluation of the situation and guidance on work gradually developed. What's more serious is that, under the norm of the traditional socialist model or even a more extreme model, this discrepancy was regarded as a class struggle. As a result, the deep adjustment triggered a new round of the expansion of class struggle.
2. The Tenth Plenary Session of the 8th Central Committee.
In the important moment when the Central Committee of the Party led the people of the whole country to overcome serious difficulties and the adjustments in various fields were continuously deepening, the Central Committee held a working conference in Beidaihe in August 1962. The original agenda of the conference was to discuss work in fields such as agriculture, finance and trade, including issues such as the household contract responsibility system. As soon as the meeting began, Mao Zedong raised the issues of class, situation, and contradictions, and requested everyone to discuss. Thus, the focus of the Beidaihe working conference shifted to discuss class struggle issues. Subsequently, this topic became the theme of the preparatory meeting for the Tenth Plenum of the Eighth Central Committee and the Tenth Plenum of the Eighth Central Committee. At the Beidaihe working conference and the Tenth Plenum of the Eighth Central Committee, Mao Zedong gave several speeches, linked to the criticism of Khrushchev's views on the Soviet Union and the adjustment measures after the meeting of the 7000 delegates, repeatedly mentioning the issue of domestic class and class struggle. He regarded some disagreements in understanding within the Party as a reflection of class struggle, and some opinions that he disagreed with, which in fact were relatively consistent with the objective situation, as manifestations of rightist opportunism or revisionism, calling them the "dark wind", "individual farming wind", and "revoking verdict wind".
At the end of 1961 and on the 7000 delegates meeting, central leaders including Mao Zedong recognized the severe economic difficulties. However, there were different understandings of the severity of the difficulties and whether we have stepped out of the most serious difficulties. For example, according to the estimates before and during the meeting of the 7000 delegates, entering 1962, the national economy had already passed the most difficult "trough" and began to rebound. After the 7000 delegates meeting, at the expanded meeting of the Standing Committee of the Central Political Bureau convened by Liu Shaoqi in February 1962 (the "Xilou Meeting"), based on the analysis of the financial department, Liu Shaoqi pointed out that “The central working meeting (the 7000 delegates meeting) does not fully understand the difficulties, there are problems that they are unwilling to reveal, and they are afraid to say the situation is completely dark! We should reveal its true face, why be afraid? Saying that the situation is completely dark can make people pessimistic, and it can also stimulate people's courage to struggle against difficulties!" This increasingly realistic estimation became the basis for the central government to further increase the adjustment efforts. But this realistic estimation caused Mao Zedong's dissatisfaction. At the Beidaihe working conference, Mao Zedong said that some people now see the situation as dark, their thoughts are confused, they lose confidence, and they cannot see the light, so they think that socialism does not work and only individual farming can be done. The higher this wind blows, the stronger it gets. He criticized some central leaders for supporting the household contract responsibility system, representing the demand of the wealthy middle peasants for individual farming, and even opposing socialism from the standpoint of landlords, wealthy peasants, and the bourgeoisie. He was also dissatisfied with the then work on distinguishing and exonerating the wronged, saying that in 1959 the campaign against Rightists should not be swept away in one stroke. In summary, almost all of the several important aspects of the further deepening adjustment after the 7000 delegates meeting were regarded as important manifestations of class struggle.
When revising the communique of the Eighth National Congress of the Tenth Central Committee, Mao Zedong added a section emphasizing the class struggle between the proletariat and the bourgeoisie, and the struggle between socialism and capitalism, which exist throughout the entire historical period of transition from capitalism to communism. In this historical period, "the overthrown reactionary ruling class is unwilling to perish, and they always attempt to restore their power. At the same time, there are influences of the bourgeoisie and customary forces of the old society in society, and there are spontaneous capitalist tendencies among a portion of small producers," "Under these circumstances, class struggle is inevitable. This is a historical law that Marxism-Leninism has long clarified, and we must never forget." He also said: The issue of the danger of class struggle and capitalist restoration must be discussed year by year, month by month from now on, "so that we have a clearer understanding of this issue, and follow a Marxist-Leninist line." In this way, the important and complicated issue of how to understand and deal with class struggle in socialist society was once again brought before the whole party in a serious yet extremely simple manner. Within the socialist society, a certain extent of class struggle will still exist for a long time, and under certain conditions, it could intensify, but it is not the main contradiction of socialism. After identifying class contradiction as the main contradiction in socialist society due to the expansion of the anti-rightist struggle in 1957, this misconception continued to evolve until it was further asserted at the Eighth National Congress of the Tenth Central Committee that this main contradiction exists prior to the advanced stage of socialism. This marked the further systematization of the view of the expansion of class struggle, preparing for the theoretical development of the "leftist" mistake on this issue by the party. Like the "Three Red Banners" in 1958, "taking class struggle as the guideline" is indeed different from the Soviet model, but it also deviates from the correct direction of sinicizing Marxism. What is more serious is that the establishment of this "guideline" further weakened the party’s ability to correct mistakes and greatly increased the difficulty of returning to the correct direction of sinicizing Marxism.
After the Eighth Central Committee of the Tenth National Congress, the work of the whole party and the whole country appeared in such a complicated situation: on the one hand, the "left" error of expanding class struggle politically further developed; on the other hand, economic adjustment and restoration tasks could still basically continue to be implemented as originally planned. These two are contradictory, but the conflict was temporarily controlled within a certain range. It can be imagined that in such a contradictory pattern, the more thorough the economic adjustment and the greater the achievements, the more likely the "left" will develop politically, and end this contradictory pattern with a movement similar to the "anti-rush" and "anti-rightist" movements of the 50s.
According to the analysis of the situation of class struggle at that time and the theory of expanding class struggle that was continuously developing, the Party Central Committee decided to carry out a universal socialist education movement in urban and rural areas. In the first half of 1963, Mao Zedong summarized and proposed "Class struggle, once grasped, works wonders," and decided to conduct a socialist education movement in rural areas with "Four Clean-ups" as the main content, and a "Five Anti" movement in cities. By the spring of 1964, a large number of rural social teams had carried out "Four Clean-ups", and a few cities had launched pilot projects of the "Five Anti" movement.
These "major strategic measures" against restoration and for the prevention of restoration under the guidance of "left"-leaning policies have, in turn, developed the "leftest" theories. In the movement of the second half of 1963, the policy of "taking class struggle as the key link" was clearly proposed: in the first half of 1964, it was seriously estimated that about one-third of the grassroots units' leadership was not in our hands but in the hands of the enemy and its allies. By the second half of 1964, tasks like "seizing power" were raised, considering the main danger was right deviation, and the "leftist" mistake was further developed. At the central working conference held from the end of 1964 to early 1965, although part of the overly "leftist" practices in the movements across the country was corrected, the nature of the movement to solve the contradiction between socialism and capitalism was emphasized, and the focus was "to rectify those in power within the party who are taking the capitalist road". This directed the spearhead of the struggle towards the leadership at all levels of the party, thereby escalating the "leftist" ideology of class struggle to a new stage, namely, the stage of deliberately and systematically manufacturing so-called "class struggles".
At the same time, excessive and erroneous criticism and struggles were carried out in the field of ideology. In December 1963 and June 1964, Mao Zedong accused in two instructions related to the art community that "many communists actively advocate feudalism and capitalism in art, but do not passionately advocate socialist art", "In recent years, it has fallen to the edge of revisionism. If not seriously transformed, it will inevitably turn into a club like Hungarian Petofi Club one day". Under the drive of these two instructions, critiques in the arts field had been escalating since 1964 and quickly extended to academia and education sector. With the development of excessive criticism in these fields, the "Double Hundred Policy" was seriously damaged, intellectuals were terrified and all feared for themselves. The majority of intellectuals were once again referred to as "bourgeois intellectuals", and many adjustments in culture and other fields in the early 60s were forced to bebroke off.
After the Tenth Central Committee meeting of the 8th Party Congress, although "left"-leaning errors developed again in politics and ideologies, they did not dominate the overall situation until the launch of the "Cultural Revolution". The main attention of the whole Party and people nationwide remained on adjusting the national economy, restoring and advancing production. Since 1963, the national economic situation began to improve comprehensively. By 1965, after five years of adjustments, the agricultural and industrial production was restored and developed, market supplies improved, nationwide price stabilized, markets thrived, and the adjustment tasks were successfully completed. At the 3rd National People's Congress held from the end of 1964 to early 1965, Zhou Enlai, on behalf of the central government, announced that our national economy is about to enter a new period of development; the third five-year plan will be implemented in 1966, and the people nationwide should strive to gradually build our country into a socialist powerhouse with modern agriculture, modern industry, modern defense, and modern science and technology.
From the completion of the Three Great Transformations to 1966, there were two development tendencies in the guiding thoughts of the Party. One was the correct or relatively correct tendency, and the other was the erroneous development tendency. Those with the correct development tendencies could understand China's national conditions relatively correctly and promote its modernization in the process of sinicization of Marxism, making it adaptable to the greatly changed international environment and the needs of contemporary socialist development. Those against these two principles would invariably form erroneous development tendencies. However, both the correct and erroneous tendencies were products of the exploration process of sinicizing Marxism and prepared conditions for its eventual sinicization.
The accumulation and development of "left" mistakes over ten years ultimately temporarily overwhelmed the correct development trend, leading to the launch of the "Cultural Revolution".

Chapter Nine The Fate of Marxism's Sinicization in the "Cultural Revolution"
In 1966, with the completion of the task of adjusting the national economy, our country began to implement the third five-year plan of the national economy, and economic construction entered a new development period. The vast number of cadres and masses, who have overcome severe difficulties in the national economy, are full of confidence, working hard to produce, and strongly hoping for faster economic development. However, at this time, the "Cultural Revolution" broke out.
"The Cultural Revolution" is a serious "left" error that occurred under the banner of defending and developing Marxism, during the process of the Communist Party of China exploring its own path of socialistic construction. It is the result of a strong desire for the sinicization of Marxism going astray. 
The "Cultural Revolution" is a denial of some policies and theories since the establishment of New China, especially since the adjustments made in the 1960s. It is the result of the Communist Party of China making a mistake in the process of combining the basic principles of Marxism with the actual conditions in China during the construction of socialism. It is also a distorted response to contemporary socialist reform and global modernization trends. This response is incorrect, but it reflects, in a very typical way, a trend of thought and practice in the process of global modernization.
In the Ninth Party Congress political report, which declared a "complete victory" for the "Cultural Revolution," it emphasized that Mao Zedong Thought is the "Marxism-Leninism of the era when imperialism is heading towards complete collapse, and socialism is heading towards victory across the world." It "combines the universal truth of Marxism-Leninism and the concrete practice of revolution in various fields, such as politics, military affairs, economy, culture, and philosophy, inheriting, defending, and developing Marxism-Leninism, and raising Marxism-Leninism to a new stage." The Ninth Party Congress report also believed that the theory of "continued revolution under the proletariat dictatorship" "laid the theoretical foundation for this proletarian cultural revolution." In fact, the "theory" on which Mao Zedong launched the "Cultural Revolution" precisely distorts the scientific connotation of Mao Zedong Thought, not only deviating from the basic principles of Marxism but also severely deviating from China's national conditions and the correct direction of the sinicization of Marxism.
I. A view of socialism and the launch of the "Cultural Revolution"
"The Cultural Revolution" was initiated and led by Mao Zedong. For Mao Zedong, this was a quest for a socialist development path different from the Soviet traditional model, a response to the drawbacks of contemporary capitalist modernization. It was his answer to "what is socialism, how to build socialism" under the conditions of the 1960s, and it was also a major effort to continue to push forward the sinicization of Marxism under new historical conditions. The "Cultural Revolution" deviated from the trend of modernization in the contemporary world, brought serious disasters to the development of the party and the country, and led the process of sinicization of Marxism astray.
1. Radical World and China
The "Cultural Revolution" is a product of socialist views, which is closely related to the "leftist" and radicalized situation of the world in the 1950s and 60s. Back then, China had a classic summary of the development and changes in the world situation: great turmoil, great differentiation, and great reorganization. Over forty years have passed, and looking back now, this summary is still quite fitting. Although there was a tendency towards radicalization and conservatism to different extents in different regions, countries, groups or camps around the world at that time, on the whole, radicalization was still in the dominant position.
Starting from the 1950s, the armed struggles of the third world nations against imperialism and colonialism and for national independence and liberation rose one after another. Reports of victories were frequent and waves surpassed each other, the old colonial international order collapsed, and the capitalist camp was full of contradictions. For the countries of the third world, the 1960s were a decade of high tide in the revolutionary movement against imperialism, colonialism, and hegemonism. Armed uprisings, guerrilla warfare, military coups, foreign interference, bloody carnage, and political turmoil became the prominent features of these ten years. In the 1960s, the national liberation movement in the third world reached its highest tide, essentially accomplishing the mission of national liberation and state independence.
After the Second World War, developed capitalist countries adapted to the needs of the new technological revolution to varying degrees through their own adjustments, alleviating or delaying economic crises, and the productive forces experienced a rapid development, some major capitalist countries once witnessed a "golden age" of development. The vast number of workers, farmers, and intellectuals became beneficiaries of this prosperity, and class contradictions in the Western world were alleviated. However, with the development of various maladies in the process of capitalist modernization, leftist ideas, student movements, and anti-racial discrimination movements also developed accordingly. Especially after the escalation of the Vietnam War in the 1960s, broad anti-war movements in developed Western countries swelled as never before, heavily striking the authorities of various countries led by the United States. In 1968, students all over the world caused disturbances, from the United States, France, Britain, Germany, and Japan in the Western world, to socialist Poland, Czechoslovakia, and Yugoslavia – everywhere, there were student movements. Youth were unwilling to tolerate such things in return for material wealth, their dissatisfaction, anger, and rebellion against the distorted development in the capitalist modernization process – the bloated material desires, spiritual degradation, tool-rational domination and individual oppression – coalesced into a surging tide. Mao Zedong's thought gained a high reputation among Western leftist intellectuals. In April 1969, the political report of the Ninth Congress of the Communist Party of China stated: "In Japan, Western Europe, and the heartland of North American capitalism, unprecedentedly huge revolutionary movements have erupted and more and more people are waking up."
Compared with the radicalization of the Third World and the left in developed Western countries, the socialist countries of the time tended towards conservatism due to their lag in reform. After the Second World War, there was a strong socialist camp. The great achievements made by socialist countries in eliminating exploitation, developing economies, advancing equality, and safeguarding peace have encouraged progressive forces worldwide and unnerved imperialism and all reactionary forces. From the mid-1950s, comprehensive reflection on the Stalin model had begun within the international communist movement, and most socialist countries had also begun to reform the Soviet model. The reform at one point gave the political and economic life of socialist countries a great deal of vitality, but they inevitably caused differing understandings and practices of reform due to their respective historical traditions, geopolitics, national conditions, different understandings of Marxism, and rigid political systems, leading to divergence, differentiation, and even splitting of the socialist camp. It should be said that these debates, dissensions, and divisions are unavoidable in the process of contemporary socialist development. While they have brought losses to the contemporary international communist movement, they have also propelled the development of socialist theory and practice. In this process, no matter what achievements have been made by socialist countries worldwide, or what twists and turns have occurred, they reflect the historical inevitability of the socialist movement from the classical and modern to the contemporary.
Leaders of the Soviet Union like Khrushchev and Brezhnev, in the absence of precedents for reform, made some beneficial attempts, achieved some results, but also encountered twists and returns due to historical limitations. Particularly worth noting is that the reforms that had already started, despite being only preliminary, were a denial of the existing models and traditional concepts to some extent. This denial, for those socialist countries with a relatively developed economy, abundant material conditions, and a high degree of socialization, is a relatively natural historical process. However, for those countries with lagging production forces, those whose foremost task is to rapidly develop the economy under the new system, and those parties maintaining huge inertia from the tumultuous mass class struggle movements just after the successful end of large-scale revolutionary wars, understanding and accepting these reform practices, which are different from classical theories and even more different from war experiences, can be challenging.
After Stalin's death, the chauvinism of the Soviet Union, a grand nation and party, had once again surged after a short period of subsidence, growing increasingly intense and inciting dissatisfaction and opposition among socialist nations and parties. Due to disagreements over reform, and the USSR's chauvinism and hegemonism, the relationship between China and the USSR worsened continuously, leading to a grand debate spanning the entire globe in the early 1960s. Mao Zedong believed that the Soviet party had been "peacefully transformed" into a revisionist party, betraying the cause of international communism; some parties in Europe, even in Asia, and South America had also gone through or were going through similar transformations. According to Mao, such changes in the Soviet party were not accidental but were the result of the combined efforts of the new bourgeoisie at home and international imperialist forces. If China didn't fight against this modern revisionism and "peaceful transformation" by imperialist forces promptly, it could suffer the same tragedy as the Soviet Union. In the first half of 1966, Mao mentioned several times that the majority of the world's parties stood with revisionism. In July of the same year, he wrote in a letter with a heavy heart that the majority of more than a hundred parties worldwide no longer believed in Marxism-Leninism, and that the philosophies of Marx and Lenin had been shattered. This reflected his views on the profound changes occurring within the entire socialist movement and mindset at the time.
Following the 1960s, the international environment in which China found itself began to undergo some major changes. The two superpowers, the USA and the USSR, started applying pressure on China from both south and north, even threatening outright war. This situation led Mao to have a significant sense of crisis. He repeatedly asked his party whether imperialists would attack China, and if China was in danger of ceasing to exist. His concerns were not unfounded. However, in contemplating this issue, he didn't give enough attention to the changes in the political and economic conditions of post-war capitalist countries, the new features of world economic development, the rise of the new technological revolutions and their impact on new trends and features of world development. He believed, based on some conclusions by Marx and Lenin on war and revolution, that war and revolution were still the main features of the current era; the general pattern of the world situation was either revolution to stop wars or wars to trigger revolution. Mao advised his party not to be afraid of war, to prepare for early and large-scale wars, to be ready for an attack from the US, and also from revisionists. He greatly overestimated the immediacy of a world war outbreak, and the possibility of such a war triggering a world revolution. On one hand, this estimation made him full of confidence and optimism for the future of world revolution; on the other hand, he worried about the security of the nation under the pressure of the two superpowers.
The global revolutionary situation against imperialism and colonialism in the 1960s, the surge in left-wing movements and thought, the twists and stagnation of reforms in various socialist countries, and the intense sense of an imminent war outbreak, profoundly affected the views of our party and national leaders on world situation, the future of socialism, and the development trend of contemporary Marxism. This, in turn, deeply influenced their perceptions of domestic conditions and the direction of domestic policies.
2. "What is Socialism?"
The completion of the three major transformations in 1956 saw Mao Zedong proposing tasks of reforming the Soviet model. He proposed to the entire party that the construction of socialism in China should stem from its own national conditions, liberate thoughts, and develop and progress according to Marxism, based on the experience of the Soviet Union. This understanding reflected the common wish of some socialist countries at the time and demonstrated the correct direction of reforming socialist countries. However, after solving this problem, another more complex and daunting task was laid before people: How to liberate thoughts and transcend the Soviet model? What exactly should the socialism that we pursue look like? How should we proceed on the path of Sinicization of Marxism? How to explore a socialist path that both aligns with the basic principles of Marxism and suits China's national conditions? It is not a simple denial of the Soviet model that can lead to the path of reform. In the process of reforming the Soviet model, all socialist countries have gone through a tortuous path, made arduous efforts, and some have even paid heavy prices. For this exploration, Mao Zedong and the Chinese communists put in tremendous energy, traversing a winding path of development. The "Great Leap Forward" was unsuccessful, but it reflected a strong desire to exceed the Soviet model; the People's Commune movement was distinctly Chinese, but it was not Marx's; the "Cultural Revolution" was completely wrong and far from the Soviet model.
In addition to a deep observation of Soviet socialist practices and a deep understanding of national conditions, successful reforms of the Soviet model require liberating thoughts, advancing the development, and modernization of Marxism according to the rich practices of decades of the international communist movement and the tremendous changes in the theme of the era. At the same time, a profound and comprehensive grasp of contemporary capitalism, the era and its development trends is necessary. Importantly, successful reforms also need a certain degree of development of large-scale national production and a commodity economy, that is, a certain degree of development of productive forces as a material basis. This is similar to the fact that in a country where a small-scale peasant economy is dominant, the understanding, attention, and application of value laws, modern management, and modern credit systems can hardly compare with a developed industrialized country. Observations and understandings of the drawbacks of the Soviet model often lead to many obvious differences in conclusions between developed and less developed countries.
In the thought resources Mao Zedong used to reform the Soviet model, in addition to observations and considerations of Soviet revolution and construction practices, he also formed some unique understandings of the basic principles of Marxism during his long-term revolutionary struggle, descriptions of utopias in Chinese history, and imprints of the "New Village" activities from his early revolutionary career. Furthermore, the influences of rich and successful military communism practices during the Chinese revolutionary war era also played a part. It was the interplay of these material and intellectual conditions that determined many features of reform in China at that time. While the "Great Leap Forward" contained a strong desire to surpass the Soviet model, many of its contents often went against the direction of socialist development. For example, neglecting the role of economic laws in socialist construction; unfamiliarity and disdain for modern management, systems, and laws; worries that the commodity economy and distribution according to work under socialist conditions could lead to "bourgeois rights"; advocating for economic construction through mass movements and even military communist methods; deep concerns about the possibility that material interests could breed "bourgeois" and "revisionism", believing that a simple and not affluent life could produce and maintain enough revolutionary spirit, which in turn can provide a strong driving force for the development of socialism, etc. 
The adjustments that began in the early 1960s were both a restoration and a certain degree of reform to the traditional model. The more pragmatic adjustments and explorations quickly achieved a batch of preliminary results. More importantly, these efforts reflected a new understanding of socialism in various aspects. However, under the conditions at that time, the modernization of Marxism had not yet made significant progress, the reforms in various socialist countries were still stumbling, and China's backward economic conditions were still restricting people's understanding of "what is socialism" to varying degrees. Under the conditions of recognizing the basic problem, the political and institutional adjustments lag behind the economic adjustments. In addition, there were many factors in the international situation at that time, the conditions for a comprehensive reform of Chinese socialism were not yet mature. In this way, the new understanding and actions of socialism that emerged during the adjustment period deepened and developed the contradictions between them and the traditional socialist concepts. Starting from 1964, Mao Zedong increasingly sharply raised the issue of rectifying revisionism to the entire party. This worry deeply reflected some contradictions between the socialism in our country's practice at that time and Mao Zedong's ideal socialism, and also reflected some contradictions between the socialist reform being carried out worldwide and Mao Zedong's ideal socialism. 
On May 7, 1966, on the eve of the launch of the "Cultural Revolution," Mao Zedong once again talked more systematically about his basic views on socialism in a directive (the "May 7th Directive") on a report to Lin Biao. He said: 
The military should be a university. In addition to fighting, this university can do various sorts of work. Throughout the eight years of the Second World War, that's how each of our anti-Japanese bases worked. This university teaches politics, military, and culture, and can also engage in agricultural sideline production, establish some small and medium-sized factories, produce some necessary products and products for equivalent exchange with the state, and engage in mass work, participate in four clearings campaign of factories and rural societies. When the four cleanings campaign is over, there is always mass work to be done, so that the military and the people will always unite and participate in the criticism of the bourgeois culture revolution struggle. In this way, military, study, industry, and the people can all be combined. But should be appropriately allocated with priorities, in terms of agriculture, industry, and people, a team can only combine one or two, cannot combine all at the same time. In this way, the role played by millions of troops is very large. 
He believes that workers are the same, focusing on industrial work, and also need to combine learning military, political, culture, performing four cleanings, and joining in criticizing the bourgeoisie. In places where conditions permit, they should also engage in agricultural sideline production, like Daqing Oilfield. Farmers focus on agriculture (including forestry, animal husbandry, sideline, and fishing) and also combine learning military, political, culture, and when conditions permit, run some small factories collectively, and criticize the bourgeoisie. Students are also the same, they focus on study, combine learning other matters, that is, not only recognizing culture but also learning industry, agriculture, and military, and criticizing the bourgeoisie. The school system should be shortened, education should revolutionize, and the phenomenon of bourgeois intellectuals ruling our schools can no longer continue. In commerce, service industries, party, and government office workers, where conditions permit, they should also do the same.
Finally, Mao Zedong pointed out that what has been mentioned above is no longer fresh opinions or inventions, for many people have been doing so for many years, but it has not yet been popularized. As for the military, it has been implemented for several decades, but it needs further development now.
These points of Mao Zedong reflected his basic ideas about socialism at that time. Such ideas had been somewhat reflected in the "Great Leap Forward" and the movement towards commune-style living among the people. During the subsequent adjustment period, Mao Zedong, based on his summary and reflection on the experience of 1958, further pondered on the question of "what is socialism". He gave up some unrealistic ideas he held during the "Great Leap Forward", and developed an understanding on the long-term nature of the socialist revolution and construction. As the divergences over the socialist construction issue within the party deepened and the mistakes in the overemphasis on class struggle expanded, class struggle as an element was increasingly incorporated in Mao's conception of socialist construction. Such new developments were clearly evident in some important documents before the outbreak of the "Cultural Revolution", such as the "516 Notice" and the "57 Instructions".
In some significant ways, the "57 Instructions" have a lot in common with the "Great Leap Forward" and the People's Commune, reflecting the important characteristics of the socialism that Mao aspired to and envisaged. This kind of socialism took "class struggle as the guide", using class struggle as the driving force and guarantee for economic construction and social development; for individual producers, class consciousness and revolutionary spirit were seen as overwhelmingly motivating forces. In this society, each member practices both industry and agriculture, and is self-sufficient or semi-self-sufficient in economy. Although commodity production, as a necessary way to develop the economy, cannot be completely avoided, it must be restricted due to its bourgeois attributes. Social division of labor, although necessary for current production, must also be restricted due to its potential to lead to inequality during the production process, and conditions should be created to gradually narrow this division. In terms of distribution, differences should also be narrowed, and a largely egalitarian supply system could even be implemented. Material interests can always induce people's material desires, directly threatening the purity and nobility of morality, and even leading to spiritual degradation, whereas revolutionary ideals and class consciousness can provide the most powerful and lasting motivation, enabling workers to be willing and capable of carrying out any arduous physical and intellectual labor. This society may not be wealthy, but that might be its superiority, because in a wealthy or highly wealthy society, people often pay the price of spiritual degradation, diminished will, and the degradation of socialism...
Mao Zedong's understanding of socialism involves some conceptions of future society that the Marxist classic writers envisaged over a hundred years ago, but also embodies a transcendence consciousness of the disadvantages of the Soviet model. It not only retains the profound mark of construction experience in revolutionary base areas and military communism during the period of the Revolutionary War in our country, but is also influenced by the profound traditions of Chinese culture. The socialist model displayed in the "May 7th Directive" does contain some bold ideas and imaginative foresights, reflects sharp criticisms of the drawbacks of capitalist modernization, and manifests idealistic pursuits. However, overall, it is unrealistic. It ignores the decisive role of productivity levels in determining social form, detaches from the theme of productivity development during socialism, and neglects the important significance of a commodity economy for socialist development. It regards class struggle, which exists in residual form, as the main contradiction of socialism, and hopes to achieve victory over the bourgeoisie through continuous class struggle and restrictions on division of labor, differences, and material interests, all of which bear an empirical and utopian hue. The ideas Mao Zedong proposed, as he himself said, were already implemented in the Anti-Japanese base areas, and the army had "done so for decades." But he does not seem to have noticed whether effective experiences during the Revolutionary War and correct practices within the army can be unconditionally extended to the entire society, especially to comprehensive socialist construction. Socialism needs development and reform, but it must start with the status quo and development of productivity; socialist construction must carry forward the revolutionary tradition and heroic spirit of the War years, but cannot be simply and directly used; the basic principles of Marxism cannot be violated, but they must also develop continuously with the times, and the correctness of this development must also be tested by practice.
On May 15, the Central Committee forwarded this letter to the entire Party. The forwarding instructions pointed out that the "May 7th Directive" was a "new epoch-making development in Marxism-Leninism." On August 1, to celebrate the 39th anniversary of the founding of the People's Liberation Army, the People's Daily published an editorial approved by Mao Zedong, "The whole country should become a university of Mao Zedong Thought — commemorating the 39th anniversary of the founding of the Chinese People's Liberation Army." The editorial announced part of the content of the "May 7th Directive" and highly praised it:
"Comrade Mao Zedong's idea that all lines of work should become revolutionary universities that are both industrial and agricultural, and both cultural and military, is our program. According to what Comrade Mao Zedong said, we can greatly enhance the proletarian consciousness of our Chinese people and promote the ideological revolution of the people", "we can promote the gradual narrowing of the difference between workers and peasants, urban and rural areas, physical labour and mental labour", "we can realize the full militarization of the people", "our people of seven hundred million will all become critics of the old world, builders and defenders of the new world. They can work with a hammer, farm with a hoe and a plough, fight the enemy with a gun, and write articles with a pen. In this way, the whole country becomes a university of Mao Zedong Thought, a university of communism".
The basic thoughts and some specific requirements in the "May 7th Directive" began to be fully implemented in the comprehensive "Fight, Criticize, Reform" movement that started in 1969. It penetrated into almost all departments and fields, manifested in numerous experiments, models, and dazzling movements. This understanding of socialism and the divergence it caused within the party became an important reason for launching the "Cultural Revolution"; the pursuit of this socialist model became an important content of the "Cultural Revolution"; Under the scrutiny of such socialist standards, only more and more class enemies could emerge, the danger of capitalist restoration could only grow more severe, and class struggle could only escalate.
3. The Lag of Marxism Modernization and Incorrect Judgements on World and National Conditions
Against the backdrop of revolutionary changes in international economics and politics, Marxism also faces the urgent task of modernization, namely, how to evolve with the developed world situation and individual national characteristics. This requires adherence to the fundamental principles of Marxism, discarding some conclusions proven outdated by practice, and incorporating new content into the development of Marxism. Without such effort to modernize, or to put it more accurately, without correct effort to modernize, Marxism will fall behind the times, and the desire to Sinicize Marxism will be in vain. 
During the democratic revolution, Mao Zedong staunchly opposed dogmatism. It was in the process of resisting dogmatism of Marxism that he proposed the scientific proposition of Sinicizing Marxism. This led to the creation of Mao Zedong Thought and achieved the first historical leap in the Sinicization of Marxism. After the initiation of comprehensive socialist construction, despite the strong desire to develop Marxism and promote the Sinicization of Marxism, tendencies in the party grew to guide socialist construction merely on doctored conclusions or incorrectly interpreted principles, rather than on China's specific situation, due to the lag in contemporary Marxism worldwide and the limitations of China's particular national condition. For instance, the longevity of socialist society and the fundamental significance of developing productive forces for the Chinese revolution and construction were underestimated based on classical authors’ envisioning of future society. In the launching of the Great Leap Forward and the People's Commune movement, notions such as "commune" and "bourgeois right" that the classical authors envision in future society were directly used as basis. During the period of national economic adjustment, some effective adjustment measures were regarded as revisionist or capitalist based on some misinterpreted assertions of classical authors, leading to an inflated class struggle. The dogmatist tendency further developed in the international communist movement debate in the 1960s. For example, in the "Proposal on the General Line of the International Communist Movement" in June 1963, it was held that "the period from capitalism to communism before entering the advanced stage of communist society is the period of proletarian dictatorship," thereby confusing the transitions from new democracy to socialist society, and capitalist society to socialist society. The list goes on.
For instance, major issues such as understanding contemporary capitalism and socialism, the transition from capitalism to socialism, recognizing the characteristics of the age, and dealing with war and peace have been left behind in the era's development based on some hundred-year-old discussions of the Marxist classical authors, overlooking the tremendous changes in the world situation after the war. Therefore, our harsh criticism came when the leaders of countries such as the Soviet Union proposed views such as "peaceful coexistence, peaceful competition, peaceful transition" in light of the changes in the world situation after World War II. The Chinese Communist Party believes that the world is still in the era of imperialism and proletarian revolution proposed by Lenin, which is the "era of the demise of world capitalism and imperialism and the victory of socialism and communism," and moreover, "the general trend of the current world is still the two sentences Mao Zedong said:‘The enemy decays day by day, and we improve day by day’". The understanding of the era and the world situation reflected in these judgements was continuously strengthened during the "Cultural Revolution," and written into the "preface of the new edition" of Mao Zedong's Quotations with huge circulation, and into the party constitution passed by the 9th Congress of the Party. The serious divergence on the issue of the era aggravates other contradictions.
Against the backdrop of the general lag in the contemporary Marxism, various degrees and forms of dogmatism have not only developed divergences and contradictions within the international communist movement, but also affected the formulation of domestic policies and judgments of the international situation, becoming another vital reason for launching the "Cultural Revolution".
4. The Development of The Mistaken Theory and Practice of Class Struggle Expansion
The Communist Party of China entered socialist society after a long period of revolutionary warfare. Influenced by this intense tradition, experience, and inertia of class struggle, after the anti-rightist struggle in 1957, Mao Zedong changed the Eighth National Congress of the Party's judgment on the primary contradiction in socialist society, which became the starting point and theoretical root for the party's continuous development of the error of expanding class struggle. During the Lushan Conference in 1959, Mao Zedong not only wrongly initiated criticism of Peng Dehuai, but also described this struggle as "a class struggle", a "continuation of the life-and-death struggle against the bourgeoisie by the proletariat", thus pointing class struggle towards the party. This signifies another serious escalation of the expansion of class struggle. By the Tenth Central Committee of the Eighth National Congress in 1962, Mao Zedong further treated some differences in understanding within the party as a reflection of class struggle within the party, and expanded the class struggle existing within a certain range of the socialist society to an extreme degree, further claiming that the transition period, with class struggle as the main contradiction, should be extended before the advanced stage of communism comes. This assertion later became known as the party's "basic theory" and was referred to as the "basic line of our party in the whole historical stage of socialism" during the "Cultural Revolution", marking the further systematization of the view of expanding class struggle. Between 1963 and 1965, the policy of "taking class struggle as the key link" was proposed in the socialist education movement. In January 1965, the "twenty-three articles" drafted under the guidance of Mao Zedong emphasized that the nature of this movement was to resolve the contradiction between socialism and capitalism, and the focus of the movement was "to rectify those in the party who are in power and taking the capitalist road". This focused the fight towards the party's leadership at all levels, thus leading the "left-leaning" thought of expanding class struggle toward the stage of purposefully, arbitrarily, and systematically creating so-called "class struggle", becoming the main basis for launching the "Cultural Revolution" and for bringing up the theory of "continuing the revolution under the dictatorship of the proletariat".
Starting from such a theory, Mao Zedong's erroneous judgment of the domestic political situation, the party's internal affairs, and the main tasks escalated. By the eve of the "Cultural Revolution" in 1966, he gradually formed a relatively systematic view about launching the "Cultural Revolution". He believed that a large number of representatives of the bourgeoisie, counterrevolutionary revisionists, had infiltrated the party, the government, the army, and all circles of the cultural field, and that the leadership of a considerable majority of units was no longer in the hands of Marxists and the masses. Inside the party, those in power taking the capitalist road had formed a bourgeois command in the central government. It has a revisionist political line and organizational line, with agents in each province, city, autonomous region, and each department of the central government. None of the past struggles could solve the problem, only by carrying out the "Cultural Revolution", publicly, comprehensively, and from the bottom up mobilizing the masses to expose the above-mentioned dark side, could the power usurped by the "capitalist roaders" be recaptured. This is essentially a political great revolution where one class overthrows another, and more are to follow. In this way, Mao Zedong has systematized and typified the theory of launching the "Cultural Revolution". This comparative systematic "continuing revolution" theory became the theoretical basis for launching the "Cultural Revolution".
In the mid-1960s in China, during the correction of the "leftist" errors of the "Great Leap Forward" movement and the adjustment of the national economy, on the one hand, economic adjustments and recovery tasks continued in accordance with the original plan. On the other hand, the "leftist" errors characterized by the expansion of class struggle in politics were constantly developing, but did not reach a dominant level until before the launch of the "Cultural Revolution." Within the Party, there was a mutual infiltration and intertwining of the two trends of development in the process of exploring China's own socialist construction path since the Eighth National Congress, and contradictions were also developing. Ultimately, due to the dogmatic understanding of Marxism at the time and the influence of system factors such as personal dictatorship, the "left" error temporarily overwhelmed the correct development tendency, eventually leading to the launch of the "Cultural Revolution."
Under the ideological guidance of "class struggle as the main focus," led by the party leader Mao Zedong himself, China experienced a ten-year-long "Cultural Revolution" from 1966 to 1976, which aimed to topple the "capitalist roaders within the Party" and was mainly characterized by "great chaos." It brought severe disasters to the party, the state, and the people.
II. Theory and Practice of "Continuing the Revolution" Under the Dictatorship of the Proletariat
1. The formation and content of the "Continuing the Revolution" theory.
The theory of "Continuing Revolution Under Proletarian Dictatorship" (abbreviated as the "Continuing Revolution" theory), serving as the guiding ideology and basic theory of the "Cultural Revolution", was incorporated into the political reports and party constitution passed by the Ninth and Tenth Congresses of the Party, as well as the constitution passed by the Fourth National People's Congress, and was hailed as the "third great milestone" in the history of Marxism. The main aspect that was understood at the time regarding the development of Marxism was that it "resolved both theoretically and practically the most crucial contemporary issue of consolidating proletarian dictatorship and preventing capitalist restoration". History has proven that the "Continuing Revolution" theory does not contribute to the development of Marxism. Quite the contrary, it deviated from the basic principles of Marxism and China's national conditions, causing severe setbacks to the process of Sinicization of Marxism and bringing serious disaster to the Party, the state, and the people of the whole country.
The "Continuing Revolution" theory is a general summary of the "leftist" error on the issue of class struggles in socialist society that constantly developed after the anti-rightist struggle in 1957. Before the "Cultural Revolution", this theory was still in its nascent, brewing, and initial development stages. Viewed as a whole, Mao Zedong's thoughts and activities were still local in regards to this issue. After the full launch of the "Cultural Revolution", the main points of this "theory" basically formed and it took precedence in Mao Zedong's thoughts and activities during this period. The eleventh plenary session of the Party's Eighth Congress proposed that Mao Zedong's series of instructions on the "Cultural Revolution" is "a significant development of Marxism-Leninism", "Comrade Mao Zedong ingeniously, creatively, and comprehensively inherited, defended, and developed Marxism-Leninism, elevating Marxism-Leninism to a new stage". On May 18, 1967, the editorial departments of "Red Flag" and "People's Daily" first introduced the concept of "Revolution under Proletarian Dictatorship" in the article "Great Historical Documents", and praised it as the "third great milestone" in the history of Marxism development. In the Red Flag editorial "Two fundamental opposing documents", the assessment of this theory developed into "the glorious theory of revolution under proletarian dictatorship". On October 1, 1967, the editorial department of "People's Daily", "Red Flag", and "Liberation Army Daily" developed this concept into "the glorious theory of continuous revolution under the dictatorship of the proletariat" in the article "Long Live the Cultural Revolution under Proletarian Dictatorship!". It was not until November 6, 1967, to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the October Revolution, that "People's Daily", "Red Flag" magazine, and "Liberation Army Daily" published an editorial titled "Advancing Along the Road Paved by the October Socialist Revolution —— Commemorating the 50th Anniversary of the Great October Socialist Revolution" and officially coined the term "The Theory of Continuing Revolution under Proletarian Dictatorship", summarized its main content into six points, and gave a detailed, authoritative explanation. This article, drafted under the leadership of Chen Boda and Yao Wenyuan and personally reviewed by Mao Zedong, highly praised the theory. "Comrade Mao Zedong fully inherited, defended and developed Marxism-Leninism, creatively proposed the great theory of continuing revolution under the dictatorship of the proletariat, and personally initiated and led the first proletarian cultural revolution in human history. This is an extremely significant mark of Marxism moving to a new stage, namely, the stage of Mao Zedong's thought"; The continuing revolution theory "creatively developed the Marxist-Leninist concept of class struggle during the period of proletarian dictatorship, creatively expanded the concept of proletarian dictatorship, has epoch-making significance, and set up the third great milestone in the history of Marxism development". It also said, "The Great October Socialist Revolution paved the way for the proletariat to seize power", "China's Proletarian Cultural Revolution paved the way for consolidating proletarian dictatorship, preventing capitalist restoration, and leading to communism. Its basic experience reflects the universal law of class struggle in the historical stage of transition from the establishment of proletarian dictatorship to communism". The article also believed that the center of world revolution has gradually shifted to China, giving rise to "Mao Zedong Thought".
The political report of the Ninth Party Congress further stated that this "theory" is a "great new contribution to the theory and practice of Marxism-Leninism", the "Cultural Revolution" launched according to this theory, "is entirely necessary and very timely". Kang Sheng further elaborated on this. He believed that Mao Zedong had developed the doctrine of perpetual revolution in Marxism, not only proposing the theory of continuing the revolution under the conditions of proletarian dictatorship, but also creating the form of revolution under proletarian dictatorship - the Great Proletarian Cultural Revolution.
On March 18, 1971, to commemorate the 100th anniversary of the Paris Commune, the editorial departments of the People's Daily, Red Flag Magazine, and the PLA Daily jointly published an editorial: "Long live the victory of the proletarian dictatorship", which again discussed the main content and significance of the "Continuing Revolution" theory. The editorial pointed out: Whether to insist on smashing the bourgeois state machine with revolutionary violence and establishing proletarian dictatorship, or to maintain the bourgeois state machine and oppose proletarian dictatorship, this is the focus of the repeated struggles between Marxism and revisionism and all kinds of bourgeois and petty bourgeois thoughts. The proletariat's seizure of power is not the end of the socialist revolution, but the beginning of the socialist revolution. In order to consolidate the proletarian dictatorship and prevent the restoration of capitalism, the proletariat must carry out socialist revolutions on the economic front, political front, and ideological-cultural front, implement comprehensive dictatorship over the bourgeoisie in the superstructure including all cultural fields, and carry the socialist revolution to the end. The editorial highly praised the "Continuing Revolution" theory, believing that "Chairman Mao has comprehensively summed up the positive and negative historical experiences of the proletarian dictatorship, inherited, defended and developed the Marxist-Leninist theory on proletarian revolution and proletarian dictatorship, and proposed the great doctrine of continuing the revolution under the proletarian dictatorship, theoretically and practically solving the most important contemporary issue of consolidating the proletarian dictatorship and preventing the restoration of capitalism, making a great new contribution to Marxism-Leninism, and opening up the victorious route for us to carry out the proletarian revolution to the end".
In the later period of the "Cultural Revolution", Mao Zedong further developed this theory, raising issues related to socialism and the dictatorship of the proletariat. On October 20, 1974, Mao Zedong, while meeting with Danish Prime Minister Paul Hartling, stated, "All in all, China is a socialist country. The system before liberation was very similar to capitalism. Now we still implement the eight-rank wage system, distribution according to work, and currency exchange. These aspects are not much different from the old society. The difference lies in the change of ownership." In February 1975, the "People's Daily" published an editorial entitled "Learn Well The Theory of The Dictatorship of The Proletariat", which announced a section of Mao Zedong's speech. It pointed out: "Why Lenin spoke about the dictatorship of the bourgeoisie, we need to clear this up. If we don't clarify this, we will turn into revisionists. ..... Our country now implements the goods system and the wage system is unequal, there are eight-rank wage system, and so on. These can only be restricted under the dictatorship of the proletariat. Therefore, if Lin Biao and others took power, it would be easy to implement the capitalist system." Mao Zedong believed that systems that are equal in form, such as distribution according to work and goods exchange, but in fact unequal, are fertile ground for the proliferation of capitalism and revisionism. This became an important reason for the launch of the "Cultural Revolution", as well as the theoretical basis of a series of "leftist" policies he pursued in economic policy. In fact, these insights contained misunderstandings about the works of Marx, Engels, and Lenin, as well as doctrinaire interpretations of some of their contents, showing considerable bias. Soon after the publication of Mao Zedong's instructions on the theoretical issues, the "People's Daily" published a selection of quotations on "The Dictatorship of The Proletariat by Marx, Engels, and Lenin", edited by Zhang Chunqiao and Yao Wenyuan, which sparked a nationwide "Learn The Theory of The Dictatorship of The Proletariat" movement. Yao Wenyuan and Zhang Chunqiao also separately wrote "On the Social Basis of Lin Biao’s Anti-Party Group" and "On the Complete Dictatorship over the Bourgeoisie", the core content of which is on the "complete dictatorship theory", attributing the consolidation of socialism to "whether or not the complete dictatorship over the bourgeoisie can be maintained in all fields and at all stages of revolutionary development", completely erasing the rich content of Marxist theory of the dictatorship of the proletariat and distorting the essence and tasks of socialism.
2. Main points and core of the theory of "continuing revolution under the dictatorship of the proletariat" 
According to the summary in the article "Moving Forward Along The Road Opened Up By The October Socialist Revolution", the main points of the "continuing revolution" theory are as follows:
Firstly, we must use the law of unity of opposites of Marxism-Leninism to observe socialist society.
Secondly, the socialist society is a rather long historical stage. In this historical stage of socialism, class, class contradictions, and class struggles still exist, as do the struggles between the two paths of socialism and capitalism, and the danger of capitalist restoration. After the socialist transformation of the ownership of the means of production is basically completed, the class struggle has not ended. The class struggle between the proletariat and the bourgeoisie, the class struggle between various political forces, and the class struggle between the proletariat and the bourgeoisie in the ideological field, are all long-term, tortuous, and sometimes even very intense. In order to prevent the restoration of capitalism and to prevent "peaceful evolution", the socialist revolution on the political and ideological fronts must be carried through to the end.
Thirdly, the class struggle under the dictatorship of the proletariat, in essence, is still a question of power, namely, the bourgeoisie wants to overthrow the dictatorship of the proletariat, and the proletariat wants to vigorously consolidate the dictatorship of the proletariat. The proletariat must exercise comprehensive dictatorship over the bourgeoisie in the superstructure, including various cultural fields.
Fourthly, the struggle between the two classes and the two roads in society will inevitably be reflected within the party. A small clique in the party who are on the capitalist road are the representatives of the bourgeoisie within the party. They are a group of counter-revolutionary revisionists who, once the time is ripe, will seize power and turn the dictatorship of the proletariat into the dictatorship of the bourgeoisie. If we want to consolidate the dictatorship of the proletariat, we must pay full attention to unmasking them, fully exposing them, criticizing them, overturning them, making it impossible for them to turn the tide, and resolutely taking back the power that they have usurped into the hands of the proletariat.
Fifthly, to continue the revolution under the dictatorship of the proletariat, the most important thing is to launch a great proletarian cultural revolution.
The sixth, the fundamental program of the proletarian cultural revolution in the field of thought is "fighting self-interest and criticizing revisionism". One must criticize revisionism politically, ideologically, and theoretically, use proletarian ideas to overcome bourgeois egoism and all non-proletarian ideas, reform education, reform literature and art, and reform all superstructures that do not adapt to the socialist economic base, and root out revisionism. 
A comprehensive overview of the above six points reveals that the core of the theory of "continuing the revolution under the dictatorship of the proletariat" is: under the conditions where the proletariat has seized power and established a socialist system, a major revolution of one class overthrowing another is still necessary, and the "Cultural Revolution" is the most important way of this "continuing revolution". 
From the basic content of the theory of "continuous revolution", it can be seen that its proclaimed major development of Marxism is essentially a dogmatic understanding and serious deviation from the basic theory of Marxism. At that time, this theory was regarded as the most significant achievement of Mao Zedong Thought, and it was considered that this achievement marked a new stage in the development of Marxism by Mao Zedong Thought, which is another stage following Leninism, the so-called "third milestone". In addition, discussing the "third milestone" in the development of Marxist-Leninist worldwide, disregarding the national conditions and characteristics of China, the characteristics of the times, and the feelings of other socialist countries and communist parties, this absolutizes the theory of "continuous revolution", implying the intention of setting standards and norms for everyone in the world willing to accept Marxism. Therefore, it is also wrong to use this method.
III. The theory of "revolution operating continuously" in practice.
1.The "Ideological Program" of the Theory of "Continuing the Revolution" - "Fighting Self-interest, Criticising Revisionism"
The "Cultural Revolution" was promoted as a "great revolution that touches people's souls," with "fighting self-interest, criticising revisionism" taken as the ideological program of this revolution. According to the understanding at the time, "fighting self-interest" was to struggle against the "self" in one's mind with the ideology of Marxism-Leninism and Mao Zedong Thought; "criticising revisionism" was to oppose revisionism and to struggle against a small handful of those in power in the party who took the capitalist road with the ideology of Marxism-Leninism and Mao Zedong Thought. The basis for this criticism was: "Nothing can be accomplished without breaking the old; this is the truth of revolution. If we do not use Mao Zedong Thought to criticise all kinds of anti-Marxist and revisionist reactionary ideologies, if we do not criticise the reactionary bourgeois worldview in the fields of politics, economy and culture, the proletariat cannot truly occupy all the positions in the field of ideological culture; once occupied, if we do not continue to carry out the great criticism of the revolution, these positions are in danger of being reclaimed by the bourgeoisie." Therefore, it is necessary to carry out a large-scale, mass, and persistent criticism of so-called revisionism and the bourgeoisie in the fields of superstructure and ideology to prevent revisionism, defeat capitalism, transform worldview and develop productivity.
 According to Marxist viewpoint, transforming the subjective world is not only about transforming ideological consciousness, but also includes transforming and developing people's cognitive abilities. In dealing with issues of ideological culture, we can never resort to compulsory means to resolve issues of people's worldview, but only through Marxist education and the promotion of scientific and cultural education, through criticism and self-criticism, through people's practice. Mao Zedong himself once said: "Adopting crude and suppressive measures towards ideological issues is harmful and unbeneficial." However, for a long period after the founding of New China, talking about transforming the subjective world, or transforming people's worldview, was equivalent to transforming the bourgeois or non-proletarian ideological consciousness, while the issue of transforming cognitive abilities and thinking methods was overlooked. As a result, the more changes we made, the further we drifted from Marxism. Especially in the "Cultural Revolution," the so-called "fighting self-interest, criticising revisionism" either stayed only verbally, or it confused friend and foe, inverted right and wrong, criticised and fought recklessly, which was utterly unrelated to what Marxism teaches about educational work in ideology. After ten years of turmoil, not only was there no demolition of the old and establishment of the new, but the spirit of our party and the excellent revolutionary traditions were severely damaged. Political awareness and moral standards greatly declined, and anarchism and extreme individualism ran rampant.
During the "Cultural Revolution," such "fighting" and "criticizing" virtually involved all fields both ancient and modern, domestic and foreign. It directly disrupted various production activities, confused people's thoughts, and meanwhile, fully exhibited a kind of utopian, backward view of socialism, and showed the inevitable results of treating Marxism with empiricism and dogmatism. It also revealed a sense of unfamiliarity and ignorance towards the trends of world modernization. For example, the provisions of the "Sixty Regulations on Agriculture" that members of the collective should cultivate a small amount of land for their own use, engage in a small amount of side jobs for the family and sell a small amount of agricultural side products from the family were all criticized as a "spontaneous capitalist tendency"; the agricultural byproducts left over after the collective members completed their national tasks and sold them in the agricultural trade market were criticized as spontaneous or speculative hoarding; the practice within people's communes of rewarding labour was criticized as "labour point supremacy"; the additional benefits for factory and mine workers working at high altitudes, high temperatures and underground, such as additional wages and night shift allowances were deemed as "material stimulation" and were cancelled; the rules and regulations in factory and enterprise were criticized as "revisionist control, carding and pressure"; the pursuit of reasonable profit indicators in enterprises was criticized as "profit-oriented". In schools, there were calls to "bring revolutionary criticism into all disciplines in humanities, to criticize the reactionary bourgeois ideological system in fields such as philosophy, history, literature, political economy, journalism education, etc." It was declared that "old humanities universities" can only be reborn in criticism, and so forth.
Due to the ignorance and nihilistic attitude towards all excellent civilized achievements both ancient and modern across the world, the field of natural science was also filled with such fanatic criticism. This type of criticism has been carried out many times since the founding of new China, reaching its "peak" during the "Cultural Revolution". Like, it was determined that the scientific and technological front had implemented a "thoroughly counter-revolutionary revisionist scientific research route" over the 17 years since the founding of new China, this approach eliminated the Party's leadership, erased class struggle, opposed to focusing on politics, advocate technical supremacy, advocated a "bureaucrat" road, formulated a series of dark outlines, dark documents, and various rules and regulations, trying to lead China's scientific and technological undertakings astray; the "Fourteen Articles on Scientific Research" formulated in 1961 was considered a concentrated representation of this "counter-revolutionary revisionist scientific research route"; it accused the "Fourteen Articles on Scientific Research" of not wanting to label different schools and ideas in natural science technology with things like 'bourgeois’, ‘proletariat’, ‘capitalist’, ‘socialist’, and spitefully said the inevitable struggle between the two worldviews in the field of science and technology, which is not influenced by human will, and this serious class struggle was defamed as just sticking "class labels", with an attempt to reconcile these conflicts, this is whitewashing peace, absolutely not allowed; it criticized the "Fourteen Articles on Scientific Research" as saying "debates on academic issues in natural science", "even discussions about materialism and idealism, dialectics and metaphysics, it is still considered an academic issue", determined that the struggle between materialism and idealism, dialectics and metaphysics in the field of science and technology, is a class struggle in ideology, viewing this struggle as an "academic issue", is wiping out the class struggle between the two classes.
The criticism of natural science itself is ridiculous. For example, it is asserted that the theory of relativity is "deeply permeated with bourgeois consciousness in natural science theories and involved in the actual class struggle", and Einstein is considered the greatest "bourgeois reactionary academic authority", "defender of the capitalist system", "champion of imperialism", and an "enemy of socialism". An article criticising the "Big Bang Theory" states that this theory "essentially only meets the needs of religion, and the reactionary forces need to paralyze people mentally". An article titled "The Struggle of Opposing Contradictions is the Driving Force of Chemical Science" posits that the development of chemistry is full of dialectical and metaphysical struggles, which are the result of class struggles. In an article criticizing the notions of environmental pollution and energy depletion, it's suggested that the root of environmental pollution "does not depend on industrial production itself, but depends on the social system and the nature of the production"; environmental pollution is a "congenital abscess that capitalism brought from the womb"; "there are still two roads, two lines, two worldviews in the struggle to deal with pollution"; the energy crisis reflects the "depletion" of the capitalist system, which is an "incurable disease" of capitalist society; the "energy crisis" is essentially a crisis of the capitalist system, an exposure of the declining capitalist system. In criticizing the Copenhagen interpretation of quantum mechanics, it's asserted that the debates about quantum mechanics in the past half-century represent the struggle of philosophical lines in the field of physics; the Copenhagen School has become a reactionary and conservative trend, its political aim is to promote "bipartisanship", reconcile classes, and try to save the dying capitalist system; it is the product of the decayed, declining, dying imperialist system, serving reactionary politics. Therefore, it's imperative to use Marxism-Leninism and Mao Zedong Thought to occupy the academic field and persist in implementing a comprehensive dictatorship over the bourgeoisie in the field of natural sciences.
The field of literature and arts is also full of such absurd criticisms. A "Brief History of Western Music" compiled at that time adopts the guiding principle of "class struggle and line struggle", and claims "all achievements of Greek culture were achieved under the propulsion of class struggle among the masses"; the book says Schubert's music "often objectively played a negative role beneficial to the restoration of feudalism"; claims Bizet faithfully served the reactionary political line of the second empire representing the interests of the big bourgeoisie and landlords; Verdi's works are considered tools of public opinion that use bourgeois humanitarianism, humanism, and fatalism to cover up and reconcile real class contradictions; Shostakovich represented the bourgeoisie's repeated contests against the proletariat and creating public opinion for the restoration of capitalism and the revisionist line.
Through the criticism of domestic policies in some socialist countries during the "Cultural Revolution", the pursued "socialist" features of the "Cultural Revolution" can also be clearly observed inversely. For example, the article "Moving Forward along the Path Opened by the October Socialist Revolution" criticizes the USSR for "being dressed in the 'cloak of building communism', replacing the socialist planned economy and distribution according to work principle with the capitalist profit law and free competition, transforming public-owned enterprises and collective farms into capitalist-natured enterprises and rich peasant economy".
In the article "The Iron-Clad Evidence of the Soviet Revisionists' Full Restoration of Capitalism in Rural Areas," it argues that the Soviet authorities: First, fully promoted the "New System" centered on profit. The essence of the so-called "comprehensive economic accounting system" is profit supremacy, putting profits above everything else. Active implementation of land division to groups and output-reward systems in villages and farms; advocating for further development of "internal economic accounting" in "collective farms", stipulating that all products, including agricultural by-products, are goods and setting the relationship between production teams and animal farms entirely on capitalist commodity-money relations. These series of measures to restore capitalism have completely disintegrated the original socialist production relations in Soviet agriculture, turning farms into capitalist agricultural enterprises. Second, vigorously supported private economy and encouraged members to engage in sideline businesses. After Brezhnev and Kosygin came to power, they intensified their support for the development of the private economy. The first measure they took in agriculture was to further relax restrictions on self-retained land and privately-raised livestock, promoting the development of private economy as having "extremely important significance". With the encouragement and instigation of the Soviet Revisionist Group, the area of self-retained land quickly expanded. The development of privately-raised livestock was rapid. Third, encouraged the free buying and selling of agricultural products, letting free markets all over, and currently, the food supply for Soviet urban residents increasingly depends on free markets.
In the article "See, What has Soviet Revisionism Turned Lenin's Party Into?" it argues: The Soviet Revisionist traitor group has long been pushing the expert line, promoting a large number of bourgeois intellectuals to control the party's leadership at all levels, turning the party from a representative of proletarian interests into a tool for the service of the bourgeois privileged class. The Soviet Revisionist Group promotes and uses "national economic experts" under the name of "economy over politics" and "economic issues and production issues are at the center of party organizational activities, conceiving the entire work of the party organization". They brazenly exclude and replace the masses of workers and peasants. The Soviet Revisionists' "Communist" publicly declared that party leaders must be "experts". When developing new party members, the proportion of bourgeois intellectuals is constantly increasing. Of the Soviet Communist Party's probationary members recruited in 1966, 40.6% were staff, of which three-quarters were engineering technicians and experts in various sectors of the national economy.
In the article "The Soviet Revisionist Group's Implementation of the 'New Economic Policy' Has Accumulated Many Negative Effects," it argues: The center of the so-called "New System" of the Soviet Revisionist group is to encourage enterprises to pursue profits through various measures and to stimulate production relying on material incentives. They expanded the autonomy of enterprises, vigorously promoted the system of adjusting production according to market conditions, and expanded the power of enterprise leaders to recruit, dismiss, and reward workers. This series of measures transformed nationally owned socialist enterprises into capitalist enterprises, replacing socialist planned economy with capitalist free competition.
The article "The Soviet Revisionist Traitor Group Widely Open Doors for Western 'Tourists', Using the 'International Travel Industry' to Promote Capitalist Restoration" argues that: The Soviet revisionist traitor group is increasingly blatantly using the 'international travel industry' to recruit various 'tourists' from the Western capitalist world, allowing these people to propagate debauched and shameless Western lifestyle in the Soviet Union, poisoning the Soviet people. The Soviet Revisionist Group, under the banner of 'peaceful coexistence' and 'cultural exchange', uses the 'international travel industry' to surrender to imperialism internationally and serve capitalist restoration domestically. Due to Khrushchev's revisionist hard work, 'tourists' from Western capitalist countries flocked to the Soviet Union. The new Soviet revisionist leadership, after coming to power, not only inherited Khrushchev's mantle in this aspect, but even went further. In the past few years, the number of Western 'tourists' to the Soviet Union has multiplied. In order to recruit Western 'tourists' and allow them to spread Western capitalist lifestyle, the Soviet Revisionist Leadership Group does not hesitate to spend a lot of money sending large amounts of advertisements and propaganda materials abroad, as well as making extensive propaganda with advertising films at press conferences held abroad and during many international exhibitions. At the same time, the Soviet Revisionist group has simplified entry procedures and established contractual relations with hundreds of travel agencies in capitalist countries, widely opening doors for Western 'tourists'. 
The article "The Soviet Revisionist Traitor Group's Implementation of the 'Five-Day Work Week' is a New Scam to Aggressively Exploit Workers" states: The so-called 'five-day work week' that the Soviet revisionist traitor group has been frantically touting and promoting for more than a year is entirely a big political conspiracy to divert the Soviet people's dissatisfaction with them, it's a new scam in which the Soviet bourgeois privileged class accelerates the exploitation of workers. The 'five-day work week' that the Soviet revisionist leadership group has been loudly promoting in the Soviet Union was proposed by them at the 23rd Congress of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union in 1966. For the past two years, the likes of Brezhnev and Kosygin have been using their propaganda machine, and have even personally went out multiple times, making a big fuss, desperately selling this bad goods. They glorify this so-called 'five-day work week' sky-high, saying that it is to 'improve the material welfare of Soviet people', and 'to create better working and resting conditions for the working people', even absurdly claiming that this is one of the 'major social achievements in the 50-year history of the Soviet Union', and so on. The so-called 'five-day work week' is for workers to complete in five days the work that must be completed in six days for the Soviet revisionist privileged group. The 'five-day work week' is not to 'create better working and resting conditions' for the Soviet workers, but to further strengthen their exploitation.
The article, "The Various Forms of the Soviet Revisionist Group Promoting Revisionist Educational Lines," states: The Soviet revisionist traitorous group, in order to consolidate its reactionary rule and cultivate successors of revisionism, vigorously promoted bourgeoisie ideas in the education sector and implemented a complete set of revisionist lines. The Soviet revisionist group forcefully advanced the bourgeoisie’s "expert-run schools" policy, turning schools into a world dominated by the bourgeoisie academic authority. The bourgeoisie worldview of this gang perfectly aligns with the Soviet revisionist group’s policy of capitalist restoration, making them faithful tools of the Soviet revisionist group’s propagation of the revisionist education line. In schools, bourgeoisie "experts" act dictatorially and monopolize everything. According to reports from Soviet publications, "Among the thirty-nine members of the party committee at Moscow University, thirty are professors and associate professors. This is the case with the party organizations of other departments." Furthermore, positions of authority at universities such as university presidents and deans can only be held by individuals such as professors and doctors. In order to cultivate successors of revisionism, the Soviet revisionist group strongly enforced the principle of "Intellectual Education First" for reactionary politics in schools. One of the Soviet revisionist leaders, Mazurov, preached at an All-Russian university staff conference that the task of Soviet students is to "be familiar with their professional duties". The Minister of Higher and Secondary Professional Education of the Soviet Union, Yeliujin, stated that "the basic requirements for youth entering university are: to possess profound and solid knowledge". This implies that the sole criterion for admitting freshmen is their score. The Soviet revisionist group, in order to meet the needs of restoring capitalism, instilled a large amount of revisionist poison in students during teaching. The textbooks they compiled, such as "History of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union", "Principles of Marxism", "Principles of Marxist Philosophy", and the new courses they offered, such as "Sociology", "Principles of Communism", are all anti-Marxist-Leninist and anti-Mao Zedong thought revisionist stuff. These textbooks advocate that communism is "humanistic", strongly oppose Stalin and the proletarian dictatorship, peddle the fallacies of the "universal party" and "universal state", and create "theories" for the restoration of capitalism. Some "specialized" courses set up by the Soviet revisionist group in schools also serve the restoration of capitalism. For example, in 1965, after the Ninth Plenum of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union passed the forceful enforcement of the capitalist restoration "new administration system", the Soviet Union immediately decided to set up dozens of new economic departments in higher education institutions across the country, open higher economic schools in several major cities, and extensively cultivate "economists" who can implement this capitalist restoration policy. The bourgeoisie reactionary "authorities" also responded one after another, compiling new economic textbooks and reference books advocating the restoration of capitalism. The Soviet revisionist group took many measures, extensively using "material stimulation" to encourage students to seek fame and fortune. They used the bourgeoisie's "academic title" system to "stimulate" researchers. Once they have written a so-called "academic paper" that gets appreciated by the Soviet revisionist group, they might obtain some sort of "academic title". Once they obtain an "academic title", their salaries can significantly increase, reaping both fame and fortune. The Soviet revisionist group, in order to cultivate successors of revisionism, has also established so-called "experimental middle schools" specifically to train "geniuses", conducting the "Siberian Olympic" composed of three rounds of examinations across Siberia to select so-called "genius" students, and so on.
What deserves attention is not the absurdity and ridicule shown by such criticisms, but the understanding and pursuit of socialism that it reflects. It is with such a socialist view that the "Cultural Revolution" is possible.
In fact, criticisms of "old thoughts", "revisionism", and "capitalism" during the "Cultural Revolution" can hardly be said to be realistic, and the methods used totally violate the principles of Marxism. In a society where material benefits are denied or belittled, the development of a commodity economy to a certain extent is seen as a restoration of capitalism, market economy is regarded as a ferocious beast, knowledge and intellectuals are belittled, democracy is merely treated as a means pragmatically, the level of awareness of laws and legal systems often remains at the level of an agricultural society, and slogans such as "Better socialist grass than capitalist bud" and "The more knowledge, the more reactionary" are thunderously shouted, it is quite predictable what the answers to what is revisionism and capitalism and what is socialism would be, and the "great destruction" and "great establishment" based on this can be easily predicted.
2. The form of opposing revisionism under the theory of "continuing revolution" - "Cultural Revolution"
In the early 1960s, under the continually deteriorating international situation, different judgments about the domestic situation within the Chinese Communist Party and different understandings of socialist construction prompted Mao Zedong to raise the question of whether China would go revisionist. On this basis, he launched the socialist education movement, asserting that "class struggle is effective once grasped." On the eve of the "Cultural Revolution," he proposed the concept of "those in power taking the capitalist road" and believed that they had formed a "bourgeois command center" at top, with a revisionist political and organizational line and agents in all regions and central departments. The "four cleanups" in the countryside, "five oppositions" in the city, and criticisms in the ideological field could not solve the problem. Only by openly, comprehensively, and bottom-up mobilizing the masses, could the power usurped by the capitalists be taken back. The best form of this kind of "revolution" is the "Cultural Revolution," and the distinct characteristic of the "Cultural Revolution" is to achieve "great order through great chaos."
In philosophy, Mao Zedong has always advocated "nothing can be accomplished without norms or standards." In the 1960s, due to his serious estimation of "revisionism" and the "restoration of capitalism," he directly applied this philosophical concept to real life. He did not take into account that the Communist Party of China had developed from a party leading armed struggles and class struggles into a ruling party leading the construction of socialism, and did not realize that China was already a socialist country led by the Communist Party. He did not believe that a socialist country could perfectly and develop itself through peaceful, reformist or progressive methods, but rather still adhered to the theories and experiences of the revolutionary war period. In opposition to "revisionism" and the "capitalist-roaders," he proposed this highly disruptive approach that does not hesitate to disrupt state power. As he pointed out in a letter to Jiang Qing on July 8, 1966, "Great disorder under heaven will lead to great order under heaven. Another bout should come in seven or eight years." The Tenth National Congress's "Report on Amendments to the Party Constitution" determined it as an "objective law." In the tumult, organizations at all levels of Party were generally impacted and fell into paralysis or semi-paralysis, and leaders at all levels of Party were generally criticized and struggled against, causing party life to be suspended. Mao Zedong initially mistook this "chaos" as "chaos for the enemy, training for the people," seeing it as a sign of the full mobilization of the masses. Later on, he thought about achieving "order" from "chaos" to stabilize the situation, and took many measures for it, such as establishing revolutionary committees at all levels as government bodies, and resuming the life of the Party, and so on. However, the turmoil still could not stop, and achieving "great order under heaven" was merely wishful thinking. In fact, in a state of people's democratic dictatorship, all power of the state belongs to the people, and turmoil can only disrupt the people's governance of the state and cause destruction and losses to work in all aspects. The reason, in addition to the main cause of the erroneous guiding thought and method of "great chaos under heaven," also includes the vagueness and error in the concept of "revisionism" and its identification. What exactly is "revisionism"? What is the standard? Is there a "revisionism"? What is the boundary between amendment and reform? These important theoretical issues were not clarified at that time. This is where the tragedy of trying to oppose revisionism by achieving "Great Order Under Heaven" with the "Cultural Revolution" of "Great Chaos Under Heaven" lies.
3. The economic model under the guidance of the "continuous revolution" theory — "Promoting production through revolution"
After 1957, an understanding began to form that revolution in the superstructure and ideological domain could drive economic development. The "Great Leap Forward" in 1958 was the recognition that after achieving victory over the bourgeoisie in the realm of thought, a climax of production and construction would naturally follow. This understanding developed in 1963 into "class struggle, one catch-all," and in the "Cultural Revolution," after overthrowing the "bourgeoisie headquarters" in an extreme "revolutionary" way, it was believed that a decisive victory had been achieved in the superstructure domain. The ideas of "revisionism" and "capitalism" were purged, and a variety of regulations that controlled, restricted, and oppressed workers and peasants were abolished. This resulted in a revolution of human thought, thereby eliminating various obstacles to production, which would inevitably make work more, faster, better, and more economical. In reality, this policy reversed the relationship between revolution and production and the relationship between superstructure and economic foundation. It absolutized the experience of the war years, exaggerated the counterproductive effects of production relationships and ideology, and violated the Marxist principle that productive forces ultimately determine economic shape. According to Lenin's view, the transfer of state power from one class to another is the primary and basic sign of revolution. However, the "revolution" pursued during the "Cultural Revolution" was a specific political struggle against "revisionists" and the "bourgeoisie". This resulted in an inevitable contradiction between revolution and production. In this "grand revolution," all past theoretical explorations on the relationship between planning and market, commodity and money, politics and economy, superstructure and economic basis, most historical, scientific, cultural, educational, artistic, and management theories were denounced as "poisonous weeds" that are anti-party, anti-socialism, and anti-Marxism. Meanwhile, some "left" theoretical views were also developing. Mao Zedong's discussion on the theory of proletarian dictatorship at the end of 1974 criticized the eight-grade wage system, distribution according to labor, and money exchange, blatantly copying some outdated Marxist discourses. Jiang Qing and Zhang Chunqiao, among others, swelled and exaggerated under the guise of "revolution," fabricating various ultra-left fallacies that destructed production. They slandered the historical materialist principle that productive forces determine production relations and ultimately determine the superstructure as the so-called "productivism." Many correct principles of socialism, such as developing productive forces, developing a commodity economy, implementing distribution according to labor, learning advanced foreign technologies, etc., were all criticized as revisionism and capitalism. As a result, under socialist conditions, the main motivation for people to engage in production labor was not material interest, but spirit, morality, and revolutionary enthusiasm, and endless class struggle, which is exactly contrary to the basic principles of Marxism. The result was a long period of severe structural disequilibrium and regional disproportion in the national economy, a decline in people's enthusiasm for production, a substantial decline in economic benefits, and the national economy on the brink of collapse. The original hope to achieve "the revolution of human thought" through the baptism of revolution, to achieve the goal of "spiritual transformation into matter," resulted in neither the blooming of magnificent spiritual flowers nor the bearing of abundant material results. This is another significant tragedy of this "revolution."
4. The party-building model under the theory of "continuous revolution" - the "Fifty Words" party-building program.
According to the theory of "continuing revolution", a large number of representatives of the bourgeoisie and revisionist elements opposed to the revolution have infiltrated the party, government, and military. They have formed a bourgeois command center within the party central committee and have their agents in various provinces, cities, autonomous regions and central departments. The power of the party has been taken over by them. Based on this erroneous estimation, after the start of the "Cultural Revolution", party committees at all levels became the target of power seizure. Under the slogan of "kicking the party committee to revolt", through criticizing the "bourgeois reactionary line", party committees from the central departments, provinces, cities, autonomous regions to grassroots organizations (except the People's Liberation Army) were widely shocked, and their power was seized. The organizational life of the majority of party members was also halted.
After October 1967, Mao Zedong proposed the task of rectifying the party. At the First Plenary Session of the Ninth Central Committee, he emphasized that the party "in fact needs to be rebuilt", hence "each branch should be rectified among the masses". What he said about “the party organization should be made up of advanced proletariat and able to lead the proletariat and revolutionary masses into fighting class enemies, should be a vigorous pioneer organization” became the "50-word program" for the party's rectification and construction. This "program" puts "battling class enemies" as the party's primary task, but fails to mention the leadership of the country's economic, political, and cultural construction. At that time, the so-called "class enemies" mainly referred to the so-called "bourgeois command center" represented by Liu Shaoqi and its "agents" across the country. By 1971, based on the restoration of grassroots organizations, various provinces, cities, and autonomous regions have convened party congresses and established new provincial party committees.
A major content of this party rectification is "out with the old and in with the new", emphasizing "the absorption of vigorous advanced proletarians who are rich in the spirit of proletarian revolutionary rebellion and brave to charge and trap in class struggles into the party". Under such ideological guidance, a portion of truly qualified party members were unable to restore organizational life or were wrongly expelled from the party, while a considerable portion of the new party members accepted did not meet the party member conditions. This party rectification movement disregarded the objective conditions of class struggles and the main internal contradictions in our country, and blindly emphasized the extreme severity of the struggle between the two classes and the two paths and the real danger of revisionist restoration. It required every party member to arm their minds with the "left" erroneous theory of "continuing revolution under proletarian dictatorship" and to enhance their consciousness of the so-called struggle between the two paths and the continuing revolution. As a result, the serious personality worship and anarchism that developed during the "Cultural Revolution" and other bad styles of thought could not be resolved, and the relationships between party members and between party members and party organizations were mostly in an abnormal state. In this way, with the development of the "left" mistake on the issue of socialist class struggle, the party not only failed to complete the transformation from a revolutionary party to a ruling party, but instead developed into creating its own opposition during the "Cultural Revolution".
5. The path to realizing an ideal society through the theory of "continuing revolution" – "fight, criticize, and reform"
The original meaning of "fight, criticize, and reform" was to "defeat those in power who follows the capitalist road, criticize the reactionary academic authority of the bourgeoisie, criticize the ideology of the bourgeoisie and all exploiting classes, reform education, reform literature and art, and reform all superstructures that are not suitable for the socialist economic base, in order to consolidate and develop the socialist system". In September 1968, when all provincial revolutionary committees in the country were established, the People's Daily published an editorial announcing the Cultural Revolution entering the "fight, criticize, and reform" stage.
After the establishment of new China, in the process of exploring the socialist road in China, based on different perceptions of what is socialism, how to build socialism and the development and changes of understanding of China's national conditions, Mao Zedong formed some viewpoints, abandoned some thoughts, and adhered to and developed some theories. During the stage of "fight, criticize, and reform", he based his ideas on these basic understandings and theories about socialism that have undergone changes but are still persisted and developed.
Throughout his long revolutionary career, Mao Zedong always passionately longed for the realization of a fair, equal, pure, and prosperous socialist society. In this society, there are no obvious differences and divisions of labor, people can engage in both mental and physical labor, everyone has lofty ideals and noble morals, and can conscientiously transform and improve themselves in practice. Within this society, the relations of production, superstructure, and ideology have a strong reaction, the constant revolution in these areas strongly promotes the rapid development of the economy, and the whole society gains abundant momentum for the development of production and science through uninterrupted class struggle, thus enabling people to live a prosperous and happy life. The fundamental characteristic of this society is public ownership because "public ownership is the source of wealth," and "after the single socialist public ownership has been achieved, this source will still be strong". In this society, the party leads everything. To ensure that the party does not degenerate, it is necessary to frequently carry out various forms of party rectification and rectification of style until the "Cultural Revolution". The management organs of this society must implement the principles of simplification and efficiency, and must embody several principles of the Paris Commune, such as that the management personnel should be elected by the masses and can be dismissed at any time, narrow the wage gap with ordinary workers, and regularly participate in various physical labors. The management organs and their staff must accept mass supervision, strictly oppose bureaucracy, closely connect with the masses, and the "Cultural Revolution" is about "partially reforming our state machinery". Although this society still needs to retain commodity production and currency exchange, it must be vigilant and restricted because they are after all the products of old society and are also the soil for the production of the bourgeoisie and capitalism under the socialist conditions, and will continuously produce new bourgeoisie. Even though this society has to retain the gap in distribution, such a gap can't expand, but can only continuously narrow, only in this way can the spiritual purity of people and equality among each other be maintained. This society must allow the vast majority of people to live a prosperous life, but as the party in power, there must also be a high level of vigilance towards such prosperity, because a prosperous life will always erode the revolutionary will of people, and even pay the price of moral decay. Poverty and hardship are always the fertile soil for nurturing pure morals and noble ideals, and so on. These ideas and pursuits are to varying degrees reflected in the activities of "fight, criticize, and reform".
The "Fight, Criticize, and Reform" movement reflects Mao Zedong's efforts to establish a new type of socialism. In this movement, there is a strong pursuit of social equality and fairness, a pursuit of a "revolution erupting from the depths of the soul" for moral purification, a pursuit of the purity of ownership and the purity of class ranks. This is not only a repudiation of the traditional Soviet socialist model's drawbacks but also a response to some unavoidable problems in the modernization process of the world at that time. According to Mao's concept, the "Fight, Criticize, and Reform" movement was intended to end the "Cultural Revolution" and restore the normal order of the state on the basis of affirming the victory of the "Cultural Revolution" and consolidating the established pattern. However, various tasks of "Fight, Criticize, and Reform" were actually concrete and systematic "leftist" mistakes, with great impracticality and destructiveness, hurting a large number of cadres and masses and continuing to create chaos in many fields.
In summary, the theory of "Continuing Revolution" is an overall summary of Mao Zedong's "leftist" erroneous views on the class struggle under socialism. These views neither conform to Marxism-Leninism, nor to China's actuality. They are a distortion of Marxism and actuality in China, causing a huge setback and mistakes in the process of Sinicizing Marxism. Launching the "Cultural Revolution" according to the theory of "Continuing Revolution" is neither a revolution nor a social progress. It is not "disrupting the enemy" but only "disrupting itself", hence it will never achieve "great chaos gives way to great governance". History has already judged, the "Cultural Revolution" was a civil strife erroneously initiated by the leaders and exploited by the counter-revolutionary groups, causing a severe disaster to the party, the state, and the people of all ethnic groups. The long-term turmoil caused the party, the state, and the people to suffer the most severe setbacks and losses since the establishment of New China, and the national economy was on the brink of collapse. The losses in national income amounted to about 500 billion yuan over ten years, and the people's living standards declined. Party organizations and state power were greatly weakened, a large number of cadres and masses were brutally persecuted, democracy and laws were wantonly trampled upon. The scientific and cultural education was severely damaged, and the gap in scientific and technological levels with the advanced countries of the world became more obvious. The excellent traditions and moral customs of the party and the people were discarded to a considerable extent. Metaphysics was rampant, and idealism was prevalent. What is particularly serious is that it greatly harmed the reputation of Marxism, weakened people's belief in Marxism, and caused extreme ideological confusion. The whole country fell into a serious political and social crisis.
IV. Resistance and Struggle: Persisting in exploring Sinicization of Marxism in the "Cultural Revolution"
During the "Cultural Revolution", the Party made serious mistakes on the general guiding ideology in promoting the Sinicization of Marxism, and the modernization process of Marxism suffered a severe setback. However, many party members and cadres and the masses adhered to the truth of Marxism, resist the mistakes of the "Cultural Revolution" with difficulty, and continued the unremitting exploration of the Sinicization of Marxism. Thus, the peaks of two critical far-left ideologies, the implementation of the Party's policies, and the rectification in all aspects emerged amidst the turmoil. This is the comprehensive rectification led by Deng Xiaoping in 1975 and by Zhou Enlai in criticizing the far-left thought around 1972. The two rectifications tried to restore the original appearance of Marxism, correct the mistakes of the "Cultural Revolution" from the actual conditions in China to some extent, and adjust and reform the rigid system to some extent. Some understandings of socialism that are more in line with China's national conditions have developed. Even Mao Zedong himself, when he made serious mistakes, repeatedly called on the whole Party to study seriously the works of Marx, Engels, and Lenin, and always believed that his theory and practice were Marxist and necessary to consolidate the dictatorship of the proletariat. These explorations and efforts prepared for finding the path of socialism with Chinese characteristics after the third plenum of the 11th Central Committee, and achieved the second historical leap of the Sinicization of Marxism. 
1. Resistance and struggle against the turmoil by the first-line leadership of the Party Central Committee at the beginning of the turmoil
After the launch of the "Cultural Revolution", the first-line leadership of the central government, such as Liu Shaoqi, Zhou Enlai, and Deng Xiaoping, advocated strengthening Party leadership, maintaining production order, and preventing the chaotic situation from continuing to expand. For the vigorous mass movement, they felt that they "do not understand, are not serious, and are not effective." Regarding Mao Zedong's high praise for Nie Yuanzi and others' big-character posters during the Eleventh Plenary Session of the Eighth Central Committee, Liu Shaqi said that "he really can't see why its significance is even more significant than the Paris Commune Manifesto". Zhou Enlai said in a speech in December: "The speed, breadth and depth of the Cultural Revolution is not what we originally expected. All of us, including myself, are not sufficiently mentally prepared." They felt that this was a big gap from their understanding of Marxism. 
At the end of 1966, on the issue of how industrial and mining enterprises should carry out the "Cultural Revolution", some elderly comrades in the party represented by Zhou Enlai, strenuously maintained the production order and basic principles of Marxism, and clashed with a group of people from the Central Cultural Revolution. At the National Industry and Transportation Symposium held from November to December 1966, the participants advocates that the movement of industrial and transport enterprises should be led by the party committee, the relationship between revolution and production should be handled correctly, the revolution should not stop production, and the draft rules for carrying out the "Cultural Revolution" in industrial and transport enterprises drafted by the Central Cultural Revolution Group was denied. However, the meeting was criticized and suppressed by Lin Biao and Jiang Qing.
The comprehensive seizure of power and armed conflicts triggered by the "Cultural Revolution" deeply worried the older generation of revolutionaries such as Chen Yi, Xu Xiangqian, Nie Rongzhen, Ye Jianying, Li Xiannian, and Tan Zhenlin. In early 1967, intense confrontations erupted between them and the Central Cultural Revolution Group. At meetings held at the Beijing Xibin Hotel and Huai Ren Hall, they vehemently attacked the chaotic activities within the party and military carried out by Lin Biao and the Central Cultural Revolution Group since the "Cultural Revolution". They condemned their disruptive actions in factories, the countryside, and the military. They believed that the military was the pillar of the proletarian dictatorship, and if the military were to be destabilized, it would be unable to shoulder the responsibility of defending the country and resisting foreign enemies. They questioned: Without the leadership of the Communist Party, can there be a revolution? It was metaphysical to always call for the masses to liberate and educate themselves without party leadership. However, this just resistance was suppressed as the "February Adverse Current." 
These resistances and struggles occurred under conditions of misunderstanding and dissatisfaction with the launch of the "Cultural Revolution" and some of its extreme practices. Although it did not reach a certain theoretical height, it led people to think and reflect on the theory and origin of the "Cultural Revolution" and sparked independent thinking under strict restrictions.
2. Criticism of the far-left trend led by Zhou Enlai in 1972
The occurrence of the Lin Biao incident was a disastrous consequence of the "Cultural Revolution" violating basic Marxist principles, and objectively declared the bankruptcy of the "Cultural Revolution". The cadres and the masses gradually wavered in their views on the theory of the "Cultural Revolution", and Mao Zedong deepened his dissatisfaction with the far-left trend. Zhou Enlai took advantage of this advantageous opportunity to lead the criticism of the far-left trend. He adjusted various tasks, accelerated the implementation of cadre policies and intellectual policies, strived to restore the original appearance of Marxism. A group of downed party, government, and military leaders returned to leading positions, and there was recovery and development in the economic, scientific, and educational fields. In the readjustment, Zhou Enlai sharply pointed out that the far-left trend was "empty, extreme, formalistic, and shouting about pro-proletarian politics." In response to the damage caused by anarchist trends to economic work, Zhou Enlai and the State Council he led put forward measures to rectify enterprises and strongly restore the various rules and regulations that had been destroyed. Through measures such as vigorous reduction in infrastructure scale and reduction in the number of workers, the problem of the large breakthroughs in the number of workers, total wages, and grain sales was resolved, reversing the downward trend of the national economy. In rural areas, the Central Party issued instructions on the distribution of people's communes, reiterating that the principle of distribution according to work must be adhered to, and that multiple permitted operations and family side businesses should not be denied as capitalist things. In the field of science and education, Zhou Enlai required basic science and theoretical research to be stepped up. He also worked on implementing the party's cultural, ethnic, and united front policies. During the rectification, Zhou Enlai repeatedly emphasized that the pursuit of diligent professional research for the revolution, the improvement of quality, the courage to tackle key problems, and the "proletarian political command" should be "hung on professional work."
Zhou Enlai's criticism of the far-leftist trend was a continuation of the correct stance demanded by many central leaders in early 1967 to correct the errors of the "Cultural Revolution." After nearly two years of adjustments and reforms, improvements were noticeable in various works. However, to Mao Zedong, criticism of the far-leftist trend was linked to the denial of the "Cultural Revolution." He believed that the task at that time was still to oppose the far-right, not to criticize the far-left. In May 1973, during the working conference of the Chinese Communist Party Central Committee, Mao Zedong's instructions about "only paying attention to production, not paying attention to the superstructure, the route, wrong" were conveyed. As a result, Zhou Enlai's efforts to correct the "left" were forcibly interrupted.
3. Comprehensive rectification led by Deng Xiaoping in 1975
The long duration and constant repetition of the "Cultural Revolution" made people's feelings of fatigue increasingly strong, raised more and more doubts about the theory and substance of the "Cultural Revolution" and generally hoped for economic development, social stability, and improved life. Against this background, Deng Xiaoping, who was entrusted with the challenging crisis, carried out a radical overhaul of various works in an attempt to reverse the wrong direction of the Sinicization of Marxism and restore Marxist's original features.
In January 1975, the fourth National People's Congress reaffirmed the grand goal of four modernizations, hoping to refocus the attention of the entire nation's people on the cause of economic development and national revitalization, establishing the leadership of the State Council with Zhou Enlai and Deng Xiaoping as the core, laying an organizational and ideological foundation for overall rectification. Afterwards, Deng Xiaoping presided over the daily work of the State Council and the Central Committee of the Party, and embarked on a sweeping rectification. During the overall rectification, Deng Xiaoping led the drafting of several documents such as "On Accelerating the Development of Industry", "Report Outline on the Work of the Academy of Sciences", and "On the General Guidelines of Work for the Whole Party and the Entire Country". He convened a series of professional meetings and proposed a series of philosophically influential ideas. He repeatedly emphasized that the construction of the four modernizations is the overall situation; we must establish a strong leadership team, resolutely struggle against factionalism, establish necessary rules and regulations; ensure stability and unity, and develop a socialist economy; the essence of rectification is the party's rectification, most importantly the rectification of leadership at all levels, and the rapid implementation of cadre policies; the four modernizations, the most demanding one is the modernization of agriculture; science and technology are also productive forces, and scientific and technical personnel are workers; scientific research needs to stay ahead, pushing production forward.... In this rectification, Deng Xiaoping also raised a significant question, "How to promote the thought of Mao Zedong", and reiterated the lesson of Lin Biao severing Mao Zedong's thoughts, which was clearly aimed at the "Gang of Four". The overall rectification led by Deng Xiaoping, and the philosophical perspectives proposed, inherited and developed some important ideas of Zhou Enlai in the 1972 adjustments. It was another major struggle between the correct leadership of the party in the "Cultural Revolution" and ultra-leftist thinking. Comprehensive rectification aimed to clarify the ideological theories, policies and truths that were overturned during the "Cultural Revolution", thereby beginning a limited restoration of order. The achievements of the overall rectification once again proved the correctness of adhering to the Sinicization of Marxism. However, the further elaboration of the rectification inevitably developed into a more systematic correction of the "Cultural Revolution". This was not only fiercely opposed by the "Gang of Four", but also couldn't be tolerated by Mao Zedong. Therefore, the comprehensive rectification, like Zhou Enlai's criticism of ultra-leftist thought, had to be forcibly interrupted. This reflects from one side the difficulty of adhering to the Sinicization of Marxism under the guidance of "leftist" thought. However, the comprehensive rectification allowed the broad masses of cadres to gradually see who the schools of thought were that were in line with the direction of historical development and the voices of the people, what Marxism's original appearance was, and what the ultimate purpose of socialist development was. This laid a solid ideological and mass foundation for the end of the ten-year internal chaos, and for the new period of proposing reform and opening up, and the realization of a second historic leap in the Sinicization of Marxism. Deng Xiaoping later said, "Reform, actually, we had tried it from 1974 to 1975", "The reform at that time, the name used was rectification, emphasizing getting the economy going, firstly, is to restore order of production".
4. New Judgment of the International Situation and the Opening of a New Diplomatic Situation
In the 1970s, the international situation underwent great changes. Mao Zedong and Zhou Enlai judged the situation and made far-sighted and bold major decisions in foreign affairs, which improved our country's external environment and brought about a good turning point in our country's foreign affairs. Among them, the key link was the restoration of the legal seat in the United Nations of the People's Republic of China and the easing of relations between China and the United States.
With the improvement of China's international status, after the joint efforts of many Asian, African and Latin American countries and other justice-holding countries, on October 25, 1971, the 26th United Nations General Assembly passed a resolution to restore the legal seat of the People's Republic of China in the United Nations. Subsequently, in February 1972, US President Nixon visited China, and the two sides signed the "China-US Joint Communiqué" on February 28 after talks, marking the beginning of the normalization process of bilateral relations. The easing of Sino-US relations directly promoted the improvement of Sino-Japanese relations and the establishment of diplomatic relations with many Western European countries.
Under the strategic context of opening a new diplomatic situation, our country has also opened a new situation in foreign economic relations. Zhou Enlai and others, under the pressure from a large number of so-called "flunkeyism" from the Jiang Qing Group, worked hard to carry out foreign trade and economic and technological exchanges, and imported a batch of technically advanced complete sets of equipment and single machines from abroad. Chen Yun, who assisted Zhou Enlai in handling foreign trade work, proposed to boldly study and use capitalism, emphasizing that "dealing with capitalism is a determined trend", "if we do not study capitalism, we will lose." He guided the foreign trade departments to boldly use the funds, technology and equipment of capitalist countries, as well as the management methods of commodity exchanges and futures markets. This played a significant role in the recovery of economic construction, deepened the Party's understanding of capitalism and its relationship with socialism, and deepened the Party's understanding of the characteristics and trends of contemporary world development.
In the 1970s, our country further developed friendly cooperative relations with countries in Asia, Africa and the third world. In this process, Mao Zedong gradually formed a concept about the "Third World" division. This is a strategic part of his late-year thinking. This division highlights the contradiction between the two countries, the Soviet Union and the United States, who are practicing hegemonism and the world's anti-hegemonic forces; emphasizes the important role of third world countries; and the importance of uniting second world countries and utilizing the contradictions between the two superpowers. It emphasizes that China belongs to the third world and should unite all forces that could be united in the world, forming the broadest international anti-hegemony united front to struggle for world peace. Although these analyses have some aspects that do not fit the reality in theory, they have played a positive role in guiding our country's diplomatic work at that time, adhering to opposition to the hegemony and war threats of the superpowers, striving to establish and develop friendly cooperative relations with the third world countries and other types of countries, and achieving normalization of Sino-US relations.
5. The resistance and struggle against the "Cultural Revolution" in various forms by party members and cadres
During the "Cultural Revolution", in response to the hard efforts of leaders such as Zhou Enlai and Deng Xiaoping at the upper levels, many old party cadres, ordinary party members, intellectuals and workers and peasants also deeply reflected on everything that happened during the "Cultural Revolution", resisted the extreme leftist trend of the "Cultural Revolution" in different ways, adhered to the effort to Sinicize Marxism, and accumulated wisdom and strength for the continued leap of Sinicization of Marxism. They either criticized the "leftist" errors upright and straightforwardly, or calmly thought and seriously wrote summary articles on the party's historical experience, or suggested to the party important issues in practical work, or sincerely preached to the accessible masses the good traditions of the party, and so on. These activities were actually different ways of resisting and fighting against the "Cultural Revolution" and actions that harm the Sinicization of Marxism. For example, after the "September 13" incident, Zhang Wentian wrote a large number of manuscripts that systematically discussed issues such as the nature, stage, tasks of socialism and the basic laws of building socialism in China, emphasizing that all work in a socialist society "in the final analysis, is to greatly improve productivity and develop the socialist economy." He sharply criticized the "leftist" rhetoric of "those who talk high about politics but are afraid of talking about economy and material interests", pointing out that "in summary, not any politics can 'take command', but only the politics as 'the concentrated expression of economy', that is, the politics that truly represents the fundamental interests of the working class and the people, can mobilize hundreds of millions of people to take action. This once again shows how wrong it is to oppose politics and economy or to make politics surpass or even separate from economy. Those 'politicians' who talk high about politics but are afraid of talking about economics, please study carefully what is the real content of the Marxist truth that 'politics is the concentrated expression of economics'!"
"Of course, the socialist revolution and the consolidation of proletarian dictatorship are very important. But what, may I ask, is the purpose of the socialist revolution and the purpose of consolidating the proletarian dictatorship? Is it to revolutionize for the sake of revolution, or to rule exclusively for the sake of ruling? Absolutely not." "If we do not strive to improve socialist productivity and the lives of the masses, and are instead blindly obsessed with the 'high-profile' of communism, then communism can only be reduced to the magic of pie in the sky. This is certainly a great insult to the lofty cause of communism!"
"Under the dictatorship of the proletariat, in the absence of war, whether the party's political line is correct or not, how correct it is, whether the power of the proletariat is consolidated or not, and how consolidated it is, must ultimately be measured by the achievements and scale of socialist economic construction. A politics that cannot mobilize the enthusiasm of the masses and cannot promote and drive economic development, no matter how well it is embellished on the surface, no matter how pleasant it sounds, is ultimately empty and can even bring disaster to the construction of the masses and the nation. The correct political leadership and the achievements of economic construction must be in a proportional relationship."
On the issue of the party's internal struggle against tendencies, Wang Ming pointed out in his article titled 'Internal Struggles Must Be Carried Out Correctly,' "Internal contradictions are not only among the people, but are also among revolutionary comrades striving for the communist cause." "Can comrades within the party who make mistakes of opportunistic ideological tendency be called 'agents of the bourgeoisie within the party'? Although the results of this tendency benefit the bourgeoisie and disadvantage the proletariat, one cannot say that comrades with this tendency are 'agents of the bourgeoisie within the party'."
"As for the dangers of right-wing tendencies and the need to struggle with the right, everyone is fairly clear, but many people seem to have a lack of understanding about the dangers of 'left' tendencies and the need to struggle with them. Some comrades even think it's better to be 'left' than right, saying 'it's better to be left than right'. "If we ignore changes in social conditions and reduce the struggle between the two lines within the party to a struggle against the right, as a result only fighting the right and not the 'left', the 'left' tendency will inevitably be encouraged to develop and even become the main danger under certain conditions. If we continue to concentrate on fighting the right after the 'left' tendency becomes the main danger, we may hurt comrades by mistaking correct things for being right-wing and cause serious consequences for the party's cause."
He also proposed: "Marxism-Leninism and Mao Zedong Thought are very rigorous, complete, and scientific systems of theory and thought. They require comprehensive research, opposing any one-sided understanding, or quoting out of context, or taking only what one needs." This is consistent with Deng Xiaoping's argument when he criticized "the two whatever’s."
Some of the Party's theorists and thinkers have also been contemplating the future development of China. Renowned economist Sun Yefang, due to his promotion of commodity circulation, value laws and other views, was imprisoned in Qincheng Prison in April 1968. He continued to study economics in prison and took the opportunity of confession to write over 30,000 words outline of socialist economics.
Gu Zhun, the first person in our country to propose the theory of market economy under socialism, and a former researcher at the Institute of Economics of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, suffered severe persecution during the "Cultural Revolution," during which he deeply contemplated a series of socialist theories.
Regarding the Soviet model, he said: "Their economy is developing, but this is still development under a war-preparation economic system, and it is a very clumsy, heavy-levied development for military readiness, in a word, Stalinistic economic system has become an incurable disease for them." "For this reason, their economic system is essentially a system of waste and suffocation. The increased income gained from economic development is largely used in military expenditure and basic industrial expansion, and the amount used to increase consumer funds can never keep up with the wage increases." He further pointed out: "I think, in the foreseeable future, this seemingly unbearable system will continue to wobble forward," but there will be a force "to overthrow this suffocating system." Twenty years later, the dramatic changes in Eastern Europe verified Gu Zhun's prophecy during the decade's disaster.
After the establishment of the People's Republic of China, Gu Zhun reflected upon the socialist revolution and construction, the lessons learnt from them, and the "Cultural Revolution," and posed a fundamentally important question, namely, the "what next after Nara left" question. This question is essentially about how to construct socialism after the success of the socialist revolution, or in other words, how to realize ideational objectives after the revolution's triumph, which is what we later referred to as the "what is socialism and how to construct it" question. Indeed, this very query was not only Mao Zedong's relentless pursuit after the establishment of New China, but also a matter of life or death confronting socialist countries at that period. Gu Zhun's acumen lay in that not only did he sharply ask this question, but also proposed new thought patterns to analyze and resolve it against an extremely broad historical background.
As Gu Zhun put it, everyone of his generation had gone through the baptism of the "wars and revolutions of the 30-40s, a grandiose kind of ideal — grander than the Resistance against Japan, and the fervor invoked by such ideals, a religious kind of fervor". They also witnessed the whirlwind advancement of the revolution in the 50s, a kind of romanticism where "one day was equal to twenty years, poetry was written everywhere but could never suffice," and the ten-year catastrophe of the so-called "Great Revolution." Such experiences led him to ask: "The path to revolution victory has been found, victory achieved, but what about 'what after Nara left'? 'I extol the tempest of revolution. But the problem rests in 'what after Nara left'? What is the path for socialist construction? This problem can only be empirically resolved." He cautioned: "Don't assume that all our problems have been solved. Clearly see where the issues lie, acknowledge what we have resolved, what remains unresolved, what went overboard, strive for practicality and avoid dogmatism in treating objective realities, and our nation will soon soar economically worldwide."
Through his profound observation of the "Cultural Revolution," Gu Zhun said: "I harbor complicatedly contradictory attitudes toward the Spartan system. Egalitarianism, fighting spirit, democratic collectivism, I personally lived through such life, deeply realizing that these are indispensable for revolutionary movements to overthrow oppressors in arduous conditions. However, the history of Sparta itself demonstrates that the long-term maintenance of the egalitarianism, military spirit, and collectivism via oligarchy and stringent disciplines will inevitably result in formalism and hypocrisy—the grand facade and corrupt content, the stunning appearance and rotten core." The questions Gu Zhun raised were commonly confronted by socialist countries, and his analysis and the conclusion drawn are shining with the light of Sinicized Marxism, just like Zhang Wentian, Sun Yefang, and others. During the ten-year turmoil, it's through the relentless pursuit of these thought pioneers, the fearless chase of these Prometheus, that a significant stroke is preserved in the history of contemporary Chinese Marxist development, pushing forward the progress of Sinicizing Marxism.
During the decade of turmoil, the vast majority of young people, students, intellectuals as well as the majority of workers and peasants also experienced a process from fanaticism, blind conformity, confusion to awakening. This awakening ultimately ignited a protest movement in April 1976, known as the "Tiananmen Incident", which was representative of mass protests. This protest arose from the "Gang of Four's" suppression of the public's mourning for Zhou Enlai. The "Gang of Four" attempted to use the so-called "Criticizing Deng and countering the trend of reversing cases" movement to overthrow Deng Xiaoping, who was the representative of the older generation revolutionaries, advocating to achieve "four modernizations". However, the vast majority of cadres and the public, under the party's long-term education, had already distinguished right from wrong through their struggling practice. In the protest movement, people shouted: "Let those scholars who castrate Marxism-Leninism go to hell". This protest movement, with the commemoration of Zhou Enlai as its background and the opposition to the "Gang of Four's" wrongdoing as its breakthrough, was actually in support of the party's correct leadership, which was represented by Deng Xiaoping, and the development direction of socialism which primarily aims at comprehensive rectification. Nevertheless, the protest was suppressed, but regardless, this national mass movement established a strong popular foundation for the later crushing of the Jiang Qing Group and the promotion of Marxism with Chinese characteristics onto the correct path.
The large number of party veterans represented by Zhou Enlai and Deng Xiaoping, in their various forms of resistance and struggle against the mistakes of the "Cultural Revolution", were the guardians, seekers of the true spirit of Marxism, and pioneers of socialist reform and opening up. These people were considered "heretics", "aliens", and their thoughts were seen as "revisionism", but they embodied the true meaning of Marxism. The majority of workers, peasants, and intellectuals adhered to their posts, worked hard, and struggled against the behavior of Lin Biao and the "Gang of Four" who were inciting "production halt and causing revolution". Without question, all these prepared and accumulated strength for the crushing of the "Gang of Four", the end of the civil strife of the "Cultural Revolution" and the breaking through of the misconceptions of Marxism with Chinese characteristics, bringing the party's ideological line back onto the right path of the sinicization of Marxism.
The "Cultural Revolution" was an extreme and gross-failure leftist error, and a serious misstep in the process of the sinicization of Marxism. It prepared the conditions from the negative aspect for the breakthrough from doctrinarianism and infatuation with empiricism, forming the ideological basis and providing ample motivation for the second leap in the sinicization of Marxism. The practice of the "Cultural Revolution" for ten years proved that the "continuous revolution" theory and its guided path were impractical, and that the sinicization of Marxism must be rectified and a new path forged. The "Cultural Revolution" fiercely attacked the "leftist" mistakes and ultra-leftist trend of thought, thereby becoming the cradle breeding new thoughts and opening new paths.

Chapter Ten The Great Movement of Thought Liberation and the Launch of the "Second Leap"
The "Cultural Revolution" was carried out in the name of adhering to and developing Marxism and consolidating the socialist system, but it exposed the malpractices of the party and state political life in the most extreme way, damaged the reputation of Marxism, and deviated from the correct direction of sinicization of Marxism. The end of the "Cultural Revolution" prompted people to deeply think about some basic issues related to the development of Chinese socialism: What is socialism? How to build socialism? What is Marxism? How to adhere to and develop Marxism? How can China develop? Where to go? The masses and cadres are in a state of hesitation and confusion.
At the end of the "Cultural Revolution", there were several paths in front of the Chinese Communist Party and the Chinese people. One was to continue to affirm the "Cultural Revolution" or the previous "leftist" mistakes, restricting the correction of the "Cultural Revolution" within the framework of the "three-point error" mentioned by Mao Zedong. At that time, most people psychologically rejected this path. One approach was to deny Mao Zedong by denying the "Cultural Revolution", negate the entire history of the Chinese Communist Party, oppose the socialist path, and demand the capitalist path. This path, the Chinese people do not allow to go, can not go. One was to deeply summarize the lessons of the "Cultural Revolution", and under the premise of adhering to the socialist direction, to open up a new path for the development of socialism in China.
The serious lesson of the "Cultural Revolution" and the rectification of the "Cultural Revolution" urgently required a theoretical answer and clarification of a series of questions. In connection with China's development path and prospects, the sinicization of Marxism also faces new situations and tasks. On the one hand, the end of the "Cultural Revolution" provided an opportunity for a huge historical turn, making it possible to break through the ideological confinement of dogmatism and re-embark on the correct path of sinicization of Marxism. On the other hand, changes in the ideological field are not an overnight matter. Especially within the party, the long-term influence of "leftist" thoughts and dogmatism has formed a nearly deep-rooted common understanding of "left is better than right, the more 'left', the more revolutionary, ‘left’ is a method issue, right is a standpoint issue", which cannot be completely reversed in a short time. At that time, the vast number of cadres and the public strongly demanded the correction of the errors of the "Cultural Revolution", thoroughly reversing the serious situation caused by the chaos of the past ten years, and making China rise again from the crisis. However, due to the limitations of the times, this urgent demand and desire encountered severe obstacles, and the work of the party and the state showed a state of hesitation in development. The proposal of the "two whatevers" policy, which continued the "leftist" mistakes, meant that after the end of the "Cultural Revolution", it could not immediately embark on the correct track of sinicization of Marxism.
As previously mentioned, the development and innovation of Marxism, and the realization of the "second leap" of the sinicization of Marxism, are only meaningful under a system where free and full-fledged socialist democratic discussions can take place. From the founding of the People's Republic of China in 1949 to 1978, the reason why such development and leaps were not achieved was not due to the lack of talent or the lack of theoretical thinking ability, but due to the lack of democracy caused by the expansion of class struggle after 1957, which was derived from accumulated practical experience (both positive and negative). To correct the direction of Marxism, it is necessary for there to be a democratic and free discussion atmosphere within the party, through releasing thoughts and breaking the shackles of entrenched dogmatism and rigid ideas, to ensure that thought liberation and democratic discussion are heading in the right direction. Veteran comrades within the party, represented by Deng Xiaoping, waged a resolute struggle against erroneous ideologies represented by the "two whatevers," ignited a massive movement for thought liberation mainly revolving around the discussion on the criteria for truth, laying the most fundamental conditions for correcting the direction of sinicization of Marxism, and preparing for a new historical turn and a new leap in the sinicization of Marxism. This movement and the rectification of the ideological field were mainly realized through the following steps: 1. Criticizing and exposing the "Gang of Four" and their erroneous theories, revealing their real face of distorting Marxism and imprisoning thought, exposing the extreme left-wing line and the harm it caused in various aspects. 2. Opposing the erroneous ideology of the "two whatevers", criticizing its rigid attitude and harm towards Marxism, and proposing a scientific attitude and requirement for a complete and accurate understanding of Mao Zedong's thoughts. 3. Sparking a major discussion on the criteria for truth, promoting the thought liberation movement among the whole party and society, restoring the ideological line of seeking truth from facts, and redirecting the sinicization of Marxism from dogma to practical orientation. 4. Studying new situations, solving new problems, brewing reforms and policy shifts, the sinicization of Marxism took a new stride in the correct direction, made new achievements, and made a good start to the second leap. 
After several rounds of back-and-forths, Marxism, grounded and benchmarked in practice, finally became an irresistible trend of the times, and a great historical turning point was eventually realized. 
I. Moving forward in hesitation
1. The "two whatevers" - Continuation of the dogmatism of the "Cultural Revolution"
After the end of the "Cultural Revolution", the central committee of the party systematically released the criminal evidence of Wang Hongwen, Zhang Chunqiao, Jiang Qing, and Yao Wenyuan's counter-revolutionary group, launching a critique against the "Gang of Four". However, due to the inability to quickly and thoroughly overcome the influence of "leftist" errors in the guiding ideology, certain limitations were imposed on this critique in practical work. The clearance of the "Gang of Four's" ultra-left ideology and theoretical system inevitably had great limitations. Despite this, with the guidance of the older generation of revolutionaries within the party, the majority of cadres and masses still combined the critique of the "Gang of Four" with the clarification of theoretical and policy issues. They criticized the "Gang of Four" for falsifying and distorting Marxism, clarified some theoretical and policy issues, improved their ability to use basic Marxist viewpoints to analyze major problems, and started to restore Marxism's original appearance in certain major issues. 
In the critique of the "Gang of Four", the most urgent problem was to quickly eliminate the severe consequences brought about by a decade of turmoil, to swiftly restore the national economy on the brink of collapse, and rectify numerous unjust, false and wrongful cases caused during the "Cultural Revolution". However, due to the limitations in understanding, it was not possible to fundamentally recognise the problems of the "Cultural Revolution" for a while, especially the relationship between the "Cultural Revolution" and Mao Zedong's errors in his later years. Under this overall framework, although the Eleventh Party Congress declared the end of the "Cultural Revolution", and reiterated the fundamental task of building our country into a modern socialist power within the 20th century, the revised party constitution still contained "leftist" errors. The process of reinstating veteran cadres and rectifying historical injustices began, but the movements were sluggish and unsure. The national economy began to emerge from chaos, but a new round of impatient and rash errors occurred. A number of unrealistic high indicators and fundamentally unattainable slogans were brought up one after another. In July 1977, a report from the State Council asserted that "a new leap forward in the national economy is beginning."
The causes for such a situation were mainly due to the historical conditions at that time. On February 7, 1977, the People's Daily, Red Flag magazine, and Liberation Army Daily published a "Two Newspapers One Journal" editorial titled "Master the Documents and Grasp the Essentials". While emphasizing the need to "manage the country by grasping the essentials", it put forth the "Two Whatevers" policy: "whatever decisions Chairman Mao made, we resolutely uphold; whatever instructions Chairman Mao gave, we adhere to unswervingly.” The editorial elevated the "Two Whatevers" to the height of guiding the work of the whole party and the whole country.
On the surface, the "Two Whatevers" seemed to adhere to Mao Zedong's ideas, but in fact, it still maintained Mao Zedong’s later years' errors, obstinately persisted in the dogmatism that had brought about severe calamity for the Chinese people, and fundamentally violated the basic principles of the sinicization of Marxism, such as the principle that theory must be combined with practice, must develop with the development of practice, and must accept the test of practice. For example, as the critique of the "Gang of Four" progressed and the harm done by the "Cultural Revolution" further revealed, the task of fundamentally clearing the "Cultural Revolution's" ultra-leftist ideology quickly became apparent. In January 1977, theorists proposed that Zhang Chunqiao's "On the Dictatorship Over the Bourgeoisie" and Yao Wenyuan's "On the Social Base of the Lin Biao Anti-Party Group" should be criticized by name. Both articles are representative works of leftist theory in the later period of the "Cultural Revolution", reflecting the basic theory of the "Cultural Revolution" in a concentrated way. Preliminary cleaning of these two articles touched on some fundamental problems of "leftist" theory after the founding of New China. However, the leaders in charge of propaganda at the time believed that "these two articles were reviewed by the central government and the great leader Chairman Mao, so they cannot be criticized by name."
For example, the erroneous theory of initiating and guiding the "Cultural Revolution" is considered the main content of studying and promoting "Selected Works of Mao Zedong" Volume 5, which was published and issued on April 15, 1977. In the decision issued by the central leadership regarding the study of "Selected Works of Mao Zedong" Volume 5, the establishment of the "continuous revolution" theory was treated as Mao Zedong's "most significant contribution to Marxism" during the period of socialist revolution and construction. The central leadership at the time published an article called "Carrying Through the Revolution Under Proletarian Dictatorship to the End", elevating the theory of "continuous revolution" to the fundamental thought permeating "Selected Works of Mao Zedong" Volume 5, and treating the crushing of the "Gang of Four" as "another great victory of the proletarian Cultural Revolution". 
For another example, in March 1977, the central committee of the Chinese Communist Party held a working conference that stressed the need to "critique Deng and resist the right-leaning trend of revising history as decreed by our great leader Chairman Mao" while also suggesting that Deng Xiaoping should be allowed to resume his work at an appropriate time. As for the Tiananmen incident, while it was referred to as a counter-revolutionary event, it was also stated that citizens paying their respects to Premier Zhou at Tiananmen Square during Qingming Festival was understandable. These contradictory understandings reflect both the initial unfolding of historical upheavals and the difficulties of change.
The "Two Whatevers" policy, under the name of "upholding Mao Zedong thought", in reality damaged and fragmented Mao Zedong thought, betraying the basic tenets of Marxism, which should continue to develop and advance in its localization and modernization in China. Even Mao Zedong himself did not treat his ideological viewpoints as immovable "doctrines". In the 1930s, a time when dogmatism was rampant and affected the entire party, it was he who plainly proposed "opposing book worship" and "no investigation, no right to speak", making significant contributions in establishing the ideological line of seeking truth from facts. 
Therefore, the "Two Whatevers" share the same essence as Lin Biao's "every word is truth, one word transcends ten thousand words" and the Gang of Four's fabricated "always follow Chairman Mao's established guidelines". When history was demanding a grand transformation, the hands and feet of many were still tightly bound by invisible shackles. If guided by the "Two Whatevers", senior comrades such as Deng Xiaoping wouldn't have been able to come back to work and many miscarriages of justice wouldn't have been righted. The class struggle would still have been the "guideline", and the nation would have remained in a state of stagnation, struggling to break free from the disaster of the "Cultural Revolution". In theory, under the "Two Whatevers", there would be no innovation in Marxism, no development in Mao Zedong Thought, and no realization of the modernization of Marxism.
The proposal and implementation of the "Two Whatevers" had both subjective and objective reasons at the time. First of all, it is a very sensitive political issue and a complex theoretical issue to thoroughly eradicate the mistakes of the "Cultural Revolution" while upholding Mao Zedong's historical position and Mao Zedong Thought as the guiding ideology of the Party. In an environment long constrained by rigid doctrine, it takes time and enlightened practice to solve these problems, and even more sophisticated political wisdom. To make the majority of cadres and the masses understand that only by pointing out and correcting the mistakes made by Mao Zedong in launching the "Cultural Revolution" in his later years, can we truly inherit the fine traditions of the Chinese Communist Party with Mao Zedong and Mao Zedong Thought as the banner, it takes time. Secondly, the influence of "left" errors is deeply rooted, and our party has suffered from them for as long as two decades. Some of them have become entrenched habit forces, and it is impossible to demand a change in a short time. In fact, the dogmatic way of thinking embodied in the "Two Whatevers" is a common problem in the international communist movement after World War II. The dogmatism towards Marxist classical authors, the dogmatism towards the Stalin model, and later the dogmatism towards the leaders of their respective countries, although they have been hit several times, they are not only difficult to correct, but often dominate. This is a very complex issue, with ideological reasons and even deeper systemic and cultural tradition reasons.
2.Posing the Scientific Proposition of Accurately and Completely Understanding Mao Zedong Thought
The proposition and continuation of the "Two Whatevers" and the "left" policy in different fields and different degrees has sparked some discussions within and outside the party. Many comrades said that they could not agree with the attitude of treating Mao Zedong Thought with the "Two Whatevers" and began to think about such issues: What kind of attitude should we have towards Mao Zedong Thought and Chairman Mao's instructions? After the editorial of "Studying the Documents and Grasping the Essence" was published, Geng Tai, the person in charge of the Central Propaganda Department, pointed out: "Publishing this article is equivalent to not smashing the 'Gang of Four'. If we act according to the 'Two Whatevers' of this article, nothing can be done." Deng Xiaoping wrote to Hua Guofeng and Ye Jianying and forwarded to the Central Committee on April 10, 1977, proposing "We must guide our entire party, army and people from generation to generation with precise and comprehensive Mao Zedong Thought." As for the rigid attitude of treating Mao Zedong Thought with the "Two Whatevers". On May 24, Deng Xiaoping criticized the "Two Whatevers" again. He pointed out: "According to the 'Two Whatevers', it is impossible to explain the problem of redressing for me, and it is impossible to affirm that the activities of the masses in Tiananmen Square in 1976 were 'reasonable'." "Comrade Mao Zedong said that he himself made mistakes. Every word a person says is right, a person is absolutely right, there is no such thing." "Mao Zedong Thought is a thought system", "We must hold high the banner, that is, we must learn and use this thought system."
Complete understanding of Mao Zedong thought means understanding each principle of Mao Zedong thought from a specific, historical, and related perspective, understanding it from its entire system, rather than splitting and dissecting Mao Zedong thought, only understanding it from individual words and phrases; accurate understanding requires distinguishing between basic principles and individual conclusions, distinguishing between correct ideas and some mistakes, that is, distinguishing Mao Zedong thought as a guiding thought from Mao Zedong's later mistakes, neither can we negate the scientific system and guiding role of Mao Zedong thought because Mao Zedong made mistakes in his later years, nor can we avoid and ignore Mao Zedong's later mistakes and their impacts because we want to adhere to Mao Zedong thought. The proposal of the "precise and comprehensive Mao Zedong Thought" reflects Deng Xiaoping's political courage, political wisdom and theoretical courage, reflects the urgent requirements of the times, encourages many cadres and theorists to begin to directly and deeply criticize some important "left" theoretical views, the "Two Whatevers" are becoming increasingly difficult to sustain.
In July 1977, the Third Plenary Session of the Tenth Central Committee of the Party was held in Beijing. Although the meeting did not mention the "Two Whatevers" again, it still insisted on the theory of "continuing the revolution under the dictatorship of the proletariat." The meeting reinstated Deng Xiaoping's central party, government, and military leadership positions which had been revoked. In Deng Xiaoping's speech after his comeback, he emphasized how to adhere to Mao Zedong's thoughts. He reiterated the need for a complete and accurate understanding of Mao Zedong's ideas and the importance of being proficient in studying, mastering and applying Mao Zedong's ideological system to guide all tasks. He pointed out that "only in this way will we not sever or distort Mao Zedong's thought, or harm Mao's thought." He further noted that the style advocated by Comrade Mao Zedong, the mass line and seeking truth from facts are the most fundamental things. "In the current situation of our party, I personally think that the mass line and seeking truth from facts are particularly important." 
The 11th National Congress of the Chinese Communist Party was held in Beijing in August 1977. The Congress proposed to fight for building our country into a great socialist modernization power within the 20th century, with the smashing of the "Gang of Four" as the symbol, and the "Cultural Revolution" was declared to have ended. However, the convention still fully affirmed the "Cultural Revolution" and believed that "such political revolutions will continue numerous times in the future". This once again showed that completely freeing oneself from the constraints of traditional concepts and dogmatism, correcting deep-rooted "left" mistakes, and correcting the right course of sinicization of Marxism, is a very arduous historical task. The 11th National Congress has contradictions of both progress and stagnation, reflecting a universal law in historical development: on one hand, the tide of history is irresistible; on the other hand, historical progress is not always smooth sailing.
Around the time of the convening of the 11th National Congress, the First Session of the Fifth National People's Congress was also held, and the CPPCC, various democratic parties, and the Federation of Industry and Commerce have also resumed their activities. This is of great significance for improving socialist democracy and the rule of law, strengthening cooperation between the Chinese Communist Party and various democratic parties, strengthening the united front of people's democracy, and has prepared a large number of cadre resources for ideological liberation and rectification. These actions have unequivocally told people that the "Cultural Revolution" must be negated.
Meanwhile, the field of culture and education, which was severely affected by the "Cultural Revolution," took the lead in correcting the disorder. After Deng Xiaoping resumed work, he actively embarked on science and education work. He overturned the "cultural-arts black line dictatorship" and "education black line dictatorship" that were forcefully imposed by Lin Biao and Jiang Qing, emphasizing that the majority of intellectuals in China had been willing to serve socialism since the establishment of new China seventeen years ago. He called for "respecting intellectual labor, respecting talents," proposed "Science and technology are productive forces," and "Intellectual workers serving socialism are part of the laboring masses" to continue the correct stance of the party on intellectuals in 1956 and 1962, thereby reversing the "leftist" policies and concepts towards intellectuals for many years. This inspired many intellectuals, and various scientific research and academic activities gradually became vibrant. The school examination system abolished during the "Cultural Revolution" was restored and universities nationwide began to enroll new students through unified examinations again. The cultural education sector welcomed an early spring and became an early field where disorder was corrected and there was success. These important measures gradually broke the influence of traditional concepts, and vigorously promoted the pace of ideological emancipation.
In conclusion, after the end of the "Cultural Revolution," the criminal activities of the anti-revolutionary group led by Jiang Qing were exposed and criticized, achieving significant results. Rectification of the party and state organizations at all levels and redressing injustices began in parts. Production in industry and agriculture was relatively quickly restored. Work in education, science, and culture also began to get back on track. However, the political and ideological confusion caused by the ten-year "Cultural Revolution" was not easy to eliminate in a short period. More importantly, the clearance of "leftist" mistakes should not only stop at clearing the "Cultural Revolution." A profound and extensive rectification to correct disorder in the ideological field is imperative.
II. The massive discussion on the standard of truth and the basic establishment of the Marxist ideological line
A correct understanding of the universal principles of Marxism, and the establishment of the fundamental significance of practice for the development of Marxism (or what is called "practice-oriented"), are two basic conditions that the localization of Marxism in China must have. If the proposition of "a complete and accurate Mao Zedong Thought" mainly refers to the understanding of the theory itself, then raising the issue of the standard of truth, is a further step to propose the standard of judging the correctness of a theory, thus gradually approaching the level of practice. Restoring the authority of practice, in turn, shakes the foundation of dogmatism.
As various tasks are gradually carried out, people increasingly feel that to thoroughly clarify the ideological confusion caused by Lin Biao and the "Gang of Four," and to correct the errors during the "Cultural Revolution," we must first solve one question: How should we correctly treat Mao Zedong's instructions and decisions? What is the standard for judging historical right and wrong? This puts forward the fundamental problem of the standard of truth. Veteran revolutionaries like Deng Xiaoping emphasized the need to accurately and fully understand Mao Zedong Thought, stressing that seeking truth from facts is the essence of Mao Zedong Thought, which in fact opened the gate of ideological liberation after the overthrow of the "Gang of Four," activated the democratic atmosphere within and outside the party, and laid the foundation for seeking truth from facts. Cadres and theoretical workers struggling to shake off the shackles of the "Two Whatevers" were greatly inspired and encouraged, leading to a debate on whether to adhere to seeking truth from facts or to adhere to the "Two Whatevers." Some cadres and theoretical workers who were at the forefront of the struggle to correct the disorder brought up this question roughly at the same time, brewing and writing articles on this topic. Since they represent the correct direction for the development of Marxism, they received support from some old party members. Under the support and promotion of veteran revolutionaries, the major discussion on the issue of the standard of truth broke through strong resistance and flourished nationwide.
1. "Practice is the Sole Criterion for Testing Truth" is a Marxist principle
In August 1977, the Central Party School, under the organization and guidance of Hu Yaobang, established an internal publication called "Theoretical Trends" for senior leaders and theoretical departments at the provincial and military levels, organizing articles on some major frontier issues of Marxism-Leninism and Mao Zedong Thought, providing a new active platform to eliminate the theoretical confusion that had existed for many years.
By the end of 1977, the Central Party School, following Hu Yaobang's recommendations, established two guiding principles for the study of Party history: one was to accurately apply the basic principles of Marxism-Leninism and Mao Zedong Thought, and the other was to use practice as the criterion for testing truth and differentiating right from wrong in political lines. Inspired by these two principles, some students began to question some of the major events during the "Cultural Revolution" and the theory of "continuing revolution." Some theorists started to write articles to clarify the ambiguous understanding of the criterion for testing truth. The development of the situation gradually raised questions about what is the standard to judge right and wrong in a political line and in thoughts and theories.
On March 26, 1978, the People's Daily published an ideological commentary titled "There Is Only One Standard," stating clearly that "the only criterion for truth is social practice." After the article was published, it received more than 20 letters, most of which expressed disagreement with the point of view, believing that Marxism-Leninism and Mao Zedong Thought were the criteria for testing truth. Therefore, the editorial department of the newspaper decided to continue organizing articles to further clarify this issue.
On May 11, 1978, the Guangming Daily published "Practice is the Sole Criterion for Testing Truth", a special commentator's article reviewed and finalized by Hu Yaobang. The article emphasized that practice is not only the criterion for testing truth, but also the only one. There is only one standard for testing truth, and that is the social practice of hundreds of millions of people. That Marxism is known as truth is the result of the long-term practice validated by countless masses. The article pointed out that the unity of theory and practice is one of the most basic principles of Marxism. The theoretical treasures of Marxism are not a pile of rigid dogmas; they must continuously add new views and conclusions in practice and abandon old views and conclusions that are no longer suitable for new situations. To insist that practice is the sole criterion of truth is to insist on Marxism. The article sharply pointed out that now, in theory or actual work, many "forbidden zones" that restrict people's thinking set up by the "Gang of Four" have not been completely broken. Wherever there is an absolute prohibition beyond practice, there is no science, and there is no true Marxism-Leninism or Mao Zedong Thought. Communists cannot restrict, butcher, or prune the infinitely rich and lively actual life with ready-made formulas; they should courageously study new problems raised in new practice. Only in this way can they have the correct attitude towards Marxism. The article, with clear standpoints, fundamentally negated the "two whatevers," and touched upon the prevalent ideological rigidification, dogmatism, and personality cult over the years, causing a strong reaction. A great number of party members, cadres, and theoretical workers firmly supported it, considering it to be a good article adhering to Marxism-Leninism and Mao Zedong Thought, and raising an issue of fundamental importance.
At that time, following the instructions of relevant leaders, the central publicity department adopted a policy of "no stance" and "non-intervention" towards this discussion. The leaders in charge of propaganda work at the central level criticized this article on many occasions, saying that the article pointed at Chairman Mao's thought, and criticized the comrades in charge of the newspaper that published this article for their lack of party spirit. They instructed the "Red Flag" magazine to be cautious in theory and hold strict control. The then Minister of the Central Propaganda Department also gave a heads-up to leaders in charge of propaganda in various provinces, saying that the article "Practice is the sole criterion for testing truth" could be debated on a small scale, and different opinions could be expressed; do not take it for granted just because "People's Daily" reprinted it and Xinhua News Agency issued it. This way, a fierce debate over the principal disagreement on the party's ideological line was laid bare before the whole party. The rectification in the ideological front had reached a crucial moment.
2. Restoring the authority of practice in the discussion on the standard of truth
When the discussion on the standard of truth faced great pressure, a group of senior comrades, including Deng Xiaoping, Ye Jianying, Chen Yun, and Li Xiannian all expressed their support, allowing this discussion to withstand the pressure, extending from the ideological and theoretical circles to all walks of life in the party, government and military, becoming a large-scale discussion with a broad mass base.
At that time, the All-army Political Work Conference was held in Beijing. Someone at the meeting emphasized that all words from Chairman Mao and Chairman Hua should not be changed. This situation and the divergence of opinions arising from the issue of the standard of truth caught Deng Xiaoping's attention. On June 2, Deng Xiaoping delivered a speech at the conference, emphasizing his perspective on seeking truth from facts. He criticized some comrades who talked about Mao Zedong Thought every day but often forgot, abandoned or even opposed the fundamental marxist view and method of seeking truth from facts, starting from reality, and combining theory with practice. Furthermore, some people believe that anyone who insists on seeking truth from facts is committing a serious crime. He believed that this was not a small issue, but one concerning the attitude towards Marxism-Leninism and Mao Zedong Thought. If one opposes seeking truth from facts, they can't be said to follow Marxism-Leninism and Mao Zedong Thought, and can only lead us towards idealism and metaphysics, leading to work loss and revolutionary failure. He urged everyone to "clear away the poison of Lin Biao and the 'Gang of Four', rectify the chaos, break the mental shackles, and liberate our thinking." This speech powerfully refuted the bizarre argument that upholding the standard of practice is "cutting off the flag", shocked those comrades whose minds were still rigid, and encouraged comrades who demanded to liberate their thoughts and uphold the standard of practice. The principle of seeking truth from facts, starting from reality, and combining theory with practice quickly became a sharp weapon for the whole party to liberate its thinking.
Freeing the mind and seeking truth from facts are always important magic weapons for our party to maintain vitality, and they are also the prerequisites for the continuous sinicization and modernization of Marxism. Freeing the mind means breaking the bond of habitual forces and subjective prejudices under the guidance of Marxism, studying new situations, and resolving new problems. Freeing the mind is to make thoughts conform to reality, to make the subjective and objective match, it is to oppose dogmatism, and it is seeking truth from facts. Only by freeing the mind can we achieve seeking truth from facts; only seeking truth from facts is the real freeing of the mind. After the founding of the People's Republic of China, our party has several successful experiences in promoting the exploration of socialist construction through the liberation of thought. Around the Eighth National Congress of the party, Mao Zedong put forward the principle of "taking the Soviet Union as a mirror", which made a good start and achieved positive results in independently exploring China's own socialist construction path. During the comprehensive adjustment period in the early 1960s, Mao Zedong once again called on the whole party to carry out investigative research. The whole party responded positively and people all over the country worked hard, bringing a turn for the better in various fields of work, and the correct or relatively correct development trend of socialist construction was developed. However, due to the influence of dogmatism, especially the lack of democracy within the party and the development of "left-tendency mistakes" such as the enlargement of class struggle, liberating the mind either became unrealistic fantasy under the guidance of "left" thought (such as the "Great Leap Forward" and the People's Commune Movement), or was fraught with difficulties and even stifled by the new dogmatism. This perhaps shows that, overall, the timing for liberating thought, breaking through dogmatism and guiding Marxism China's path in the right direction was not yet ripe. However, after the calamity of the "Cultural Revolution" and repeated comparisons between two development trends within the party, conditions are finally ripe. Under the backdrop of the gradual restoration and liveliness of democracy within and outside the party, the principles of liberating thought and seeking truth from facts can now really be put into practice.
With the support of Deng Xiaoping and others, some newspapers continued to organize article discussions, and some units began to prepare for discussions on issues of truth standards. On June 24, with the support and instruction of Luo Ruiqing, Secretary General of the Central Military Commission, the "People's Liberation Army Daily" published an article titled "A Basic Principle of Marxism" on the front page under the byline of a "special commentator" that systematically responded theoretically to the difficulties raised for adhering to the principle that practice is the only standard for testing truth. The article clearly pointed out: Thought can't prove itself, theory is the guide to practice and practice is the standard for testing truth, these are two different issues, and they can't be confused with each other. The idealism and metaphysics of Lin Biao and the "Gang of Four" were very prominent in their view of truth. For a long time, they have claimed that truth is something that changes according to people's subjective thoughts; that theory itself or authoritative individuals' commentary, or what is written in documents, as the standard for judging truth, while tabooing object practice. The harm they did was so severe, and the situation so serious, that almost everyone had a personal experience. Following this, several main newspapers in the capital continued to publish and reprint related articles, which effectively promoted the discussion on the issue of truth standards.
Deng Xiaoping closely watched the development of the discussion, guiding the direction of the discussion with superb political wisdom and effective measures. On July 22, Deng Xiaoping said in a conversation with Hu Yaobang, "The article 'Practice is the Only Standard for Testing Truth' is of Marxist nature. Arguments are inevitable, and arguing well has its root in 'two whatevers'." In September, he again explained how to emancipate thinking and hold up high the banner. He pointed out that how to uphold the banner of Mao Zedong Thought is a big issue. The "two whatevers" are not the banner of Mao Zedong Thought, and if this continues, it will harm Mao Zedong Thought. The essence of Mao Zedong Thought is to seek truth from facts, which is to combine the universal principles of Marxism-Leninism with the specific practice of the Chinese revolution. The essence of Mao Zedong Thought is these four words 'seek truth from facts'. Deng Xiaoping's advocacy, supported by Ye Jianying, Li Xiannian, and Tan Zhenlin, allowed the discussion to continue in depth. During the discussion, everyone pointed out that this issue is not only fundamentally theoretical, but also fundamentally practical. The discussion of this issue is related to our ideological line, political line, and also related to the future of our party and country.
3. A new round of the movement for ideological emancipation and rectification
The discussion on the standard of truth has solved the issue of our party's ideological line and is a great movement for ideological emancipation. It is also a debate on how to deal with Marxism. At a crucial moment when our socialist cause is facing difficulties and hesitation, it broke the spiritual shackles of the "two whatevers", proving with scientific theory and irrefutable facts that the "two whatevers" are not only anti-Marxist, but also unworkable in practice. This encourages people to restore and respect the authority of practice, and the concept of "practice is the only standard for testing truth" has gone deep into people's hearts. As pointed out by Deng Xiaoping, "The debate on the standard of truth is indeed an issue of ideological line, a political issue, and an issue related to the future and destiny of the party and the country." He elaborated on the extreme importance of the ideological line, saying: "A party, a country, a nation, if it starts from doctrine, becomes ideologically rigid, superstitions prevail, then it cannot advance, its vitality will stop, it will lose its party and country." "Only when the thought is liberated, can we correctly use Marxism-Leninism, Mao Zedong Thought to guide us, to solve the problems left over from the past, to solve a series of new problems, to correctly reform the unsuitable relations of production and superstructure with the rapid development of productive forces, to determine the specific path, policy, method, and measure for realizing the four modernizations based on china's actual conditions."
The extensive and in-depth discussion on the issue of the standard of truth has carried out a universal education on dialectical materialism and historical materialism for the majority of cadres and masses, forcefully pushed people to make a total liquidation of the pseudo-Marxist theory of Lin Biao, the "Gang of Four", and correct the mistakes made by Mao Zedong in his later years, creating conditions for large-scale rectification, restoration, and solving historical issues. From then on, the Party gradually freed itself from the influence of the "two whatevers", and dealt with the various problems encountered in the rectification process in a pragmatic manner. The organization department released unjust, false and wrong cases, regardless of who appraised them and under what circumstances, they should be redressed. Some industrial departments resolutely implemented the principle of distribution according to work, restoring some past effective practices that had been criticized; in rural work, leaders in Anhui, Sichuan and other places adjusted rural policies boldly based on actual conditions, began to try contract farming, household responsibility system and other forms of operation, gradually corrected some "left" practices in rural work for many years...
The profound discussion on the standard of truth encourage many cadres and theorists to criticize some representative "left" theoretical viewpoints. The discussion on the issue of distribution according to labor, which began in the economic theory circle from February 1977, deepened continuously after the curtain was lifted on the discussion of the standard of truth. This discussion sharply criticized absurd arguments like claiming that distribution according to work is the economic basis for generating bourgeois rights, and arguing that production development is a "productive force theory". More importantly, the discussion also further delved into how to embody the principle of distribution according to work in practice. On May 5, 1978, an article titled "Implementing the Socialist Principle of Distribution According to Work" was published in the "People's Daily" and was fully affirmed by Deng Xiaoping and Li Xiannian. The article comprehensively proved the socialist nature of distribution according to work, expounded on various forms of labor remuneration under distribution according to work, cleared up theoretical errors and confusion concerning distribution according to work, and triggered a major reaction in the field of theory.
In summary, the discussion on the standard of truth, based on the return of the sinicization of Marxism to practice, sharply proposed the attitude towards Marxism, and fundamentally corrected the direction of the sinicization of Marxism. This is: We must adhere to emancipating the mind, seeking truth from facts, starting from reality, and combining theory with reality. Only in this way does Marxism possess vitality and the great practice of our country's socialist construction has a clear direction. This discussion also powerfully promotes people to cast off the shackles of dogmatism, emancipate the mind, boldly practice, dare to create, verify and develop truth in practice, and constantly nurture new achievements of the sinicization of Marxism. History has shown that the transition from the erroneous state of the sinicization of Marxism to the new leap of the sinicization of Marxism has already begun.
III. The new starting point of socialism with Chinese characteristics and the start of the second historical leap of the sinicization of Marxism
1. Emancipation of thought promotes new exploration
The rectification of the ideological line is the precursor and prerequisite for all rectifications and reform and opening up. "Only by emancipating the mind, adhering to seeking truth from facts, starting from reality, and linking theory with reality, can our socialist modernization construction proceed smoothly, and our party's Marxism-Leninism and Mao Zedong Thought can also be smoothly developed." In this sense, the discussion on the standard of truth also serves as the prerequisite for Marxism with Chinese characteristics to return to the right path and achieve the second historic leap.
The negation of "leftist" ideology, centered mainly on opposing the "two whatever" policy and discussions on standards of truth, has powerfully propelled all kinds of new explorations. These explorations are not only sourced from correct practices before the "Cultural Revolution", such as the Toulas experiment and the agricultural household production responsibility system test, but also largely stems from reflections post the setbacks of the "Cultural Revolution". New explorations not only negate the "Cultural Revolution" itself but also begin to reexamine the model of socialist construction in the decade before the "Cultural Revolution". Consequently, this discussion effectively becomes a grand movement of ideological liberation loudly appealing for great changes in our country's socialist era, a movement that gives our ideological motivation and CI thought mode, making it a game changer in the political situation. Because of this, this discussion fully prepares for the Third Plenary Session of the Eleventh Central Committee of the Party, thus becoming a new starting point in history for the second brave leap in the Sinification of Marxism. The new results in exploring socialist development brought about by ideological liberation are multifaceted and evidenced in understanding the external environment of socialist construction, in reflection on the experiences and lessons of our country's socialist construction, in brewing the policy and shift of focus on reform and opening up, and in pondering over major issues such as the future developments paths of China.
2. Expanding World Communication and Global Perspective
A global perspective and an open consciousness are crucial conditions for realizing the sinification of Marxism. Historically, the establishment of the Chinese Communist Party is a product of Marxismand Leninism spreading in China and merging with China's worker movement. The spread of Marxism in China is an outcome of opening up our mindsets. However, during the "Cultural Revolution," self-proclaimed labels such as the "center of world revolution" and the "third milestone in the development of Marxism," were only born when knowledge of the outside world was extremely limited. After enduring stolid and close-minded views that severely damaged the sinification of Marxism, the urgent task standing in front of the entire party was to open up to the world, absorb the positive results of world civilization development, learn from other successful socialist country's practices, and to thereby realize new developments in sinifying Marxism. In some time before the Third Plenary Session of the Eleventh Central Committee, our country's interactions with foreign countries exponentially increased, giving the Party a new understanding of the modernization process in the contemporary world and providing more references and a broader view on socialist construction. In 1978 alone, there were 20 visits from leaders at the level of deputy prime minister and deputy chairman and above, who visited over 50 countries, including both developing and advanced capitalist nations. The most eye-catching visit was Deng Xiaoping's visit to Japan in October 1978. During his visit, Deng Xiaoping specifically studied and investigated Japan's internationally advanced modernized enterprises and hi-tech facilities, expressing a strong ambition to learn from foreign advanced experiences and technologies to expedite China's modernization process.
Besides visits from party central leaders, various departments of the State Council, and provinces, cities, autonomous regions all organized delegations and research groups, focusing on studying the industrial and agricultural production and economic development status of developed capitalist countries. Among which, the more high-profile and large-scale visit was the one to five Western European countries by a Chinese government delegation led by Deputy Prime Minister Gu Mu. Before leaving, Deng Xiaoping specifically talked to Gu Mu, instructing them to conduct detailed investigative research, emphasizing the learning of advanced capitalist experience. The delegation visited fifteen cities in five countries, broadly engaging with government leaders and various communities. These frequent, extensive visits not only caught the attention of the Chinese people but made the world realize that China was progressing towards the world with a new posture!
Through gradually increasing Foreign Affairs, the party has gained a more direct and comprehensive understanding of developments and changes in the international situation and trends in world economic development. Based on this, the party central timely made a series of significant judgments and decisions.
On the one hand, it changed the once-held belief that a "world war is imminent." In September 1977, when Deng Xiaoping met with foreign guests, he said, "The international situation has changed a lot. Many old concepts and formulas can no longer reflect the reality, and the old strategic regulations in the past are also not in line with reality." "We need a peaceful environment." In December of the same year, Deng Xiaoping proposed a judgment at the Central Military Commission's meeting that a world war could be delayed. This judgment gradually became a consensus among central leaders.
On the other hand, the decision was made to seize favorable opportunities and open up to the outside world. Through various interactions, the party and government had a comprehensive understanding of international trends and economic development trends and adjusted foreign economic policies accordingly. In September 1977, Deng Xiaoping said: We need not only to learn the world's advanced science and technology but also to absorb the world's advanced industrial management methods. In March 1978, Hua Guofeng also proposed: Introducing advanced technology and equipment is an important move to speed up economic development. Deng Xiaoping said in 1975 that this was a major policy. Introduction should also be planned for a long time, and overall planning should be considered. On March 18, 1978, Deng Xiaoping said in his speech at the National Science Congress: Modern science and technology are undergoing a great revolution. To improve the level of science and technology in our country, we must adhere to the principle of independence and self-reliance. However, every nation, every country, needs to learn from the strengths of other nations and countries, and learn from their advanced science and technology. In 1978, the central government specifically set up a leadership group to introduce new technologies to accelerate the introduction.
Dogmatism and rigid thinking are the products of closedness and semi-closedness. Once there is normal interaction with the outside world and a broad world view, they are hard to maintain. Opening the country and broadening the horizon are the fruits of liberating thought and also give liberating thought greater momentum. Breaking through the constraints of being closed not only brings us rich material results but also great ideological achievements. After taking this step, the modernization of Marxism and the Sinicization of Marxism also gained a more solid foundation.
3. New Understanding of Socialism During the Brewing of Reform and Opening Up and Shift of Work Emphasis
After the discussion on the standard of truth opened the door to the liberation of thought, the Party began to rethink how to build Chinese socialism. In 1978, the guidelines for reform and opening up began to be brewed, and the shift of work focus also began to be considered, eventually opening the door to the second leap of Sinicization of Marxism before and after the Third Plenary Session of the 11th Central Committee.
In response to the low level of economic management in our country at the time, the central party proposed the assertion to reform the economic management system in our country. Deng Xiaoping clearly proposed: "After introducing advanced technology and equipment, we must manage in accordance with international advanced management methods, advanced operational methods, and advanced quotas, that is, management according to economic laws. In a word, we must innovate, not reform, and not make do and mend." In June 1978, Hua Guofeng pointed out: Many aspects of our superstructure and production relations are still not perfect, many aspects of our political system and economic system still have defects, which are not compatible with the requirements of realizing the four modernizations and hinder the development of productivity. Therefore, we must have the courage to decisively and properly reform the parts of the superstructure and production relations that are not compatible with the development of productivity. 
From July 6 to September 9, at the businesslike meeting convened by the State Council, more than sixty functionaries in charge of relevant departments proposed reforming the economic management system and actively introducing foreign advanced technology and capital on the basis of a serious summary of the experiences and lessons since the founding of New China. Li Xiannian pointed out in the summary speech: To achieve the four modernizations, this is a great revolution that fundamentally changes the backward economic and technological appearance of our country. This revolution must greatly change the current backward productivity, and inevitably must change the production relation in many ways, change the superstructure, change the management style of industrial and agricultural enterprises and the nation's management style of industrial and agricultural enterprises, change people's activities and thinking styles, and make them suitable for the modern large economy. For this reason, in the economic leadership work, we must firmly break free from the old frame of sticking to administrative levels, administrative methods and not talking about economic accounting, economic effects, and economic responsibility, break through the narrow vision of small production, change the manual mode, small peasant economy mode, and even feudal yamen-style management methods, and grasp the ability to lead and manage modern large-scale industrial and agricultural production. In order to carry out the reform deployment according to the new requirements, the National Planning Conference held from September 24 to October 22 proposed that economic work must implement three changes: First, shift the focus to productive struggles and technological revolution; Second, move from bureaucratic management systems and methods to scientific management track of managing according to economic laws; Third, shift from a state of self-seclusion or semi-self-seclusion to an active introduction of foreign capital and advanced technology and boldly enter the international market. 
As the discussion on the criterion of truth gradually deepened, and the call for reform and opening up inside and outside the party became louder, Deng Xiaoping inspected the three northeastern provinces in September 1978 and launched another important ideological movement to develop productivity through emancipation of thought and reform and opening up. He pointed out in his speech: "The problem we face now is primarily seeking truth from facts, combining theory with reality, and starting from reality. This is a political issue, an ideological issue, and also the practical issue of our achieving the four modernizations", "Now we want to achieve four modernizations, there are many conditions that did not exist during Mao Zedong's lifetime, but now exist. If the central leadership doesn't consider issues and make decisions based on current conditions, many issues won't be raised and can't be resolved", "The world changes every day, new things constantly appear, new problems constantly emerge, we can't shut our doors, we can't stay behind by not using our brains". He emphasized, "Marxism believes that ultimately we must develop productivity. We are too poor, too backward, honestly we owe the people. We must now develop productivity and improve people's living conditions." "Socialism must show its superiority, how can it carry on as it is now, we've built for over twenty years and still so poor, why do we need socialism?" "We must advocate, must educate all cadres to think independently, boldly reform what is unreasonable." Deng Xiaoping's speech during his inspection of the Northeast caused a huge resonance among the majority of cadres. After a period of brewing, the policy of reform and opening up became the consensus of the majority of the Party, creating conditions for opening up a new development path for China.
The deepening of the intellectual liberation movement and the advancement of various tasks broke through the mindset of "class struggle as the guideline" and the restriction of "criticizing and exposing the 'Gang of Four' as the guideline." This promoted discussions about shifting the focus of our work. In March 1977, the National Planning Conference specially emphasized, in response to ideological chaos created by the "Gang of Four" in the economic realm, that enterprises should focus on production and all work should serve production. Afterwards, in a national-wide discussion about issues such as remuneration distribution, some comrades critiqued the "Gang of Four" for accusing "productivism" by citing related statements from Lenin and Mao Zedong, emphasis was especially placed on the extreme importance of developing productive capacity after the proletariat have seized power.
Not long after returning to work, Deng Xiaoping began contemplating on how to break the limitation of "class struggle as the guideline" and shift the focus of the Party's work. On August 23, 1977, he pointed out in a Military Commission discussion, "For now, the struggle against the 'Gang of Four' is our guideline. We must carry out this struggle to the end, but there must be a time limit." As rectifications on all fronts have gradually developed, thoughts within the party regarding China's development and the formulation of the reform and opening-up policy indicated that economic construction is becoming the focus of the entire Party. Against this backdrop, Deng Xiaoping timely proposed the issue of shifting the focal point of the Party's work. In a speech addressing a tour of Northeast China in September 1978, Deng Xiaoping clearly stated: "Through the movement, improve the team and style. Half a year of time should suffice. The movement shouldn't take excessively long, for it would lead to exhaustion." On October 11th, he proposed more clearly in his speech at the 9th National Congress of Trade Unions in China: “The struggle against the ‘Gang of Four’ has taken a decisive victory across the nation. Based on this victory we can begin a new task” This new task is to greatly change the current backward productive forces, change the backward relations of production and superstructure, and realize four modernizations.
Deng Xiaoping's opinions quickly reached a consensus among central leaders, providing even more complete conditions for the decision to shift the focus of the Party's work, and subsequently make a historic turn for the Party and the country.
4.The new starting point for the second leap of Marxism sinicization
After the end of the "Cultural Revolution", two years of stagnation and various preparations, the necessary conditions for shifting the focus of the party and state work were basically mature. At the end of 1978, the Third Plenary Session of the Eleventh Central Committee constituted a great historical turn, full of symbolism.
The Third Plenary Session of the Eleventh Central Committee has been recorded in history as a new starting point for reform, opening-up, and the construction of socialist modernization, also because it corrected the direction of Marxist development. It thus becomes a new starting point for the development of Chinese Marxism, the new starting point for the second leap of Marxism sinicization, and also the new starting point for the Chinese characteristic socialism theory, the latest achievement of Chinese Marxism.
From November 10 to December 15, 1978, the central committee held a work conference in Beijing. On December 13, Deng Xiaoping gave a speech titled "Emancipate Thought, Seek Truth from Facts, and Unite and Look Forward" at the closing session. He warned the entire party, "If no reform is carried out, our modernization efforts and socialist enterprise will be buried." Under the encouragement of the older generation of revolutionaries and the joint effort of the majority of the delegates, this thirty-six-day-long central work conference finally broke the constraint of the "principle of two whatevers", transforming the originally intended economic work discussion into a preparatory meeting for rectification and opening new prospects. Deng Xiaoping's speech actually became the theme report for the upcoming Third Plenary Session of the Eleventh Central Committee.
After fully preparation of the central work conference, the third plenary session of the 11th Central Committee of the Communist Party of China was held in Beijing from December 18 to 22, 1978. The plenary session broke through severe restrictions caused by long-term "leftist" mistakes, criticized the wrong guideline of "two whatever", clarified that we must fully and accurately grasp the scientific system of Mao Zedong Thought; the plenary session highly praised the discussion on the standard problem of truth, re-established the ideological line, political line and organizational line of Marxism, and made strategic decisions to shift the focus of the Party and the state's work to the construction of socialist modernization and reform and opening up. The plenary session solemnly pointed out, "The lofty task of the Central Committee of the Party on the theoretical front is to lead and educate the whole Party and the people of the whole country to historically and scientifically recognize Comrade Mao Zedong's great achievements, to fully and accurately grasp the scientific system of Mao Zedong Thought, to combine the universal principles of Marxism-Leninism and Mao Zedong Thought with the concrete practice of the construction of socialist modernization, and to develop it under the new historical conditions." This is the restoration of the basic principle of the Sinicization of Marxism, and it will surely open a new path for the Sinicization of Marxism.
Therefore, the third plenary session of the Eleventh Central Committee ended the situation of the party advancing in hesitation for two years after the smashing of the "Gang of Four", ended the confusion and hesitation of the Sinicization of Marxism, and realized the great turn of the Party's history since the founding of New China and the development course of the Sinicization of Marxism. As Deng Xiaoping said, "Our real turning point was the Eleventh Central Committee's Third Plenary Session held at the end of 1978. The Third Plenary Session formulated a new program, guidelines, and policies, and it established a new ideological line, a political line, and an organizational line." 
Deng Xiaoping's speech "Emancipate the mind, seek truth from facts, and unite to look forward" as the main report of this plenary session, became the manifesto of the new theory of socialism with Chinese characteristics in the new era and new road after the end of the "Cultural Revolution" and breaking through the restrictions of "two whatevers".
The so-called new era refers to the new era unswervingly focused on the all-round advancement of the construction of socialist modernization with the Third Plenary Session of the Eleventh Central Committee as a new historical starting point, the hallmark of reform and opening up, and the second historic leap in the Sinicization of Marxism.
The so-called new road refers to the socialist road with Chinese characteristics that is opened up by correcting the long-term "left" mistakes, facing new situations, solving new problems, and based on the great achievements of socialist construction since the founding of New China, on the other, it also leads to an another leap in the Sinicization of Marxism.
The so-called new theory is the theory of socialism with Chinese characteristics for contemporary China, as the achievements of the second leap in the Sinicization of Marxism, which has developed in practices of reform and opening up and the construction of socialist modernization with Chinese characteristics, and combining Marxism-Leninism with the reality and characteristics of contemporary China, correcting Mao Zedong's late mistakes, and adhering to, developing and inheriting Mao Zedong Thought.
After the third plenary session of the 11th Central Committee, the Chinese Communist Party adhered to the ideological line of Marxism, continuously advancing the Sinicization and modernization of Marxism, and the face of the Chinese people, socialist China, and the Communist Party of China underwent historic changes. These changes cannot be separated from the two years plus prior to the convening of the Third Plenary Session of the 11th Central Committee, when the movement for the liberation of thought was carried out and the clearing up of the confusion caused by the "Cultural Revolution". These two years were a period of transition from hesitation to a great historical turning point, a period of direct preparation and ample brewing for the realization of the Sinicization of Marxism, and also a period of gradual return to the right track from twists and turns and hesitation of the Sinicization of Marxism. During these two years:
Through the criticism and struggle of the "two whatever", a scientific attitude towards understanding Mao Zedong's thought completely and accurately is clarified, which lays an ideological foundation for breaking the dogmatism and rigid attitudes towards Mao Zedong's thought. 
Through discussions on the standard of truth, it is clear that the basic theories of Marxism, including Mao Zedong's thought, all have a standard of verification. This standard is social practice. Practice is richly varied and constantly changing, and theory itself must continue to develop. 
Through the rectification of wrongful cases and the acceleration of the return process of old cadres, Deng Xiaoping essentially became the core leader of the Party in the third plenary session of the 11th Central Committee, preparing the leadership foundation, cadre grassroots, and organizational foundation for the historic transition. In this process, Deng Xiaoping, with his rich revolutionary experience and outstanding leadership ability, demonstrated great political courage and wisdom, great theoretical courage and level, and became the founder and constructor of the theory of socialism with Chinese characteristics, achieving a new leap in the Sinicization of Marxism, associating this contemporary Chinese Marxism closely with his name. 
Through enthusiastic discussions on major theoretical issues and struggles against "leftist" thinking in various fields, the restoration and development of intra-party democracy are promoted. During this period, the atmosphere of democracy and freedom of discussion was relatively strong, different opinions could be expressed, and different ideas collided with each other. Deng Xiaoping emphasized that "Democracy is an important condition for liberating thinking". The thought liberation movement initiated by the issue of the standard of truth gradually broke the mental shackles and binds of thought despotism, broke the impact of dogmatism and personal idolization, the democratic consciousness of cadres and the masses began to awaken, independent thinking became a tide of the times, many issues were gradually clarified through thorough discussion, providing favorable conditions for the development and innovation of Marxism.
Through promoting rectification in various aspects and breakthroughs in "leftist" policies, and mutually promotive with the thought liberation movement, an irresistible tide is formed, accelerating the process of historical transition, preparing for the Sinicization of Marxism to get on track in various ways, and laying a broad mass foundation. 
Through studying new situations and solving new problems, new theoretical achievements are brought about. Deng Xiaoping once said at the All-Army Political Work Conference in 1978: "If we simply copy some of the past documents word for word, we cannot solve any problems, let alone talk about solving any problems correctly." He also said: "The world is changing every day, new things are constantly emerging, new problems are constantly emerging, we can't shut ourselves off and not use our brains will forever be backward." "To achieve the four modernizations, there are many conditions, Mao Zedong did not have in his lifetime, but now we do." The course of the Sinicization of Marxism is a process of the continuing combination of the basic principles of Marxism with the reality of contemporary China and the characteristics of the times. In the face of the constantly changing domestic and foreign situation, it is not the solution to turn a deaf ear and remain ignorant, the only correct way is to study new situations and solve new problems. It is this keenness to discover new problems and the ability to solve new problems that makes the liberation of thought and thus the historic transition possible, and can summarize new experiences, make new generalizations, push the theory forward, constantly promote new leaps in the Sinicization of Marxism.