CHAPTER I
The Spread of Marxism and the Source of the Party’s Guiding Ideology
I 
The Early Days of Marxism in China
1.	Chinese Ideology and Cultural Awakening
The 20th century was a period of great change in modern Chinese society. The people in the capital, Beijing, entered the 20th century under the shadow of the national humiliation inflicted by the Eight-Nation Alliance. At the time, it seemed that only the prospect of bleak destruction lay before the Chinese people.
Foreign capitalism had invaded China since the Second Opium War in 1840, leading to great changes in Chinese society and gradually reducing it to a semi¬colonial, semi-feudal society. With the aim of enslaving and destroying China, the foreign powers invaded through military, political, economic, and cultural means. As Chinas feudal rulers sought to maintain their own rule of power, they sought refuge through imperialism, thereby becoming agents of Western powers. Led by Sun Yat-sen, the 1911 Xinhai Revolution overthrew the old monarchical system of imperial China, creating a relatively complete modern national democratic revolution, which opened the gates of progress, but failed to change the traditional social structures and improve the plight of the people. After Yuan Shikai seized power in the Republic of China, the political situation began to deteriorate. He completely wiped out the fledgling democracy that had been initiated with the Xinhai Revolution and openly returned to a despicable restoration of the monarchy. After Yuans fall, China plunged into a period of disputes between warlord separatists. Manipulated by imperial powers, the warlords used the slogan "Reunification of Force," and many minor warlords used "the security of the people" as an excuse to wage their own battles for power and oppress the people. Continuous fighting between the warlords over a period of several years brought great destruction and infinite hardship to Chinese society and its people. In the years leading up to 1915 and after, several major famines occurred in China, compounding the suffering of the people.
Imperialist aggression also forced China to eventually adopt a capitalist mode of production. From the beginning of the 1860s, China had its own national industry. After the First Sino-Japanese War, China's national economy saw greater development. From 1895-1913, a total of 548 factories were set up nationwide, with a capital of 120.279 million yuan. The total capital of 463 of those factories was 90.821 million yuan. With the development of China's national economy, the Chinese proletariat grew and flourished. In 1894, China had about 100,000 industrial workers. By 1914, on the eve of World War I, the number of industrial workers had increased to 1 million. This indicates that, though China had hit on a windfall, it had also created a revolutionary force. The dual development of the rise and fall of national oppression and a newly forged modern industry constituted the major trends of the entire movement toward an overall modern Chinese society. Imperialism and feudal forces combined to push China into a dark abyss, but the emergence of national industry and new social forces had brought some light to China's prospects. In the course of 110 years of semi-colonialism and semi-feudalism in China, the early years of the 20th century (1901-1915) can be called the country's lowest point.
The First World War accelerated the evolution of Chinese society, triggering an unprecedented cultural awakening of the mind. During the war, on September 15,1915, Chen Duxiu founded Youth Magazine (renamed New Youth from Volume 2, Issue 1) in Shanghai, and it promptly evolved into a weapon to be launched against Confucianism, ushering in a new cultural movement that opposed old traditions. Those fighting for this new culture were very radical, not recognizing  traditional authority and dogma, while advocating a break of the spiritual yoke through the application of "rational" criticism and a reexamination of all things. People called this cultural movement "ideological enlightenment."
Like Enlightenment Thought in the West in the 15th century in essence and content, this movement was a criticism of feudal ideology and culture that opened the way for the development of capitalism. However, there were some differences in the timing of the two. The Western Enlightenment anticipated the outbreak of Europe's bourgeois revolution, while the Chinese New Culture Movement was an idea born of the bourgeois revolution. It broke out in the context of imperialist wars around the world and fighting among domestic warlords. For this reason, it was bound to reinforce the resistance of imperialists and feudalists to a certain extent, providing new historical material for Marxisms later spread in China and the outbreak of the patriotic May Fourth Movement, which laid the necessary ideological groundwork and establishing the necessary conditions.
World War I also exposed the shortcoming of Western civilization, breaking down that particular idol in the minds of the Chinese people. It was a brutal war, costing not only more than ten thousand lives on the battlefield, but also are than twenty thousand nonfatal casualties, leaving many disabled, and almost completely destroying the accumulation of material civilization in a matter of just a few years. Liang Qichao traveled to Europe at the end of the war, visiting England, France, Belgium, and other countries. In his article Touring Europe he described the beginning of the destruction of production in Europe, a crisis of faith, and scenes of social chaos and poverty, lamenting the situation there in which "the entire society was caught in fear and angst, like a boat that had lost its direction in wind and fog, and did not know where to go. This could not help but shock those in China who had long been obsessed with learning from the West.
It was also at this time that many advanced thinkers started to realize that Chinese society had to change, but that it had to move in a different direction from Western capitalism. After traveling in Europe, Liang concluded that social revolution - unfortunately the major feature of the 20th century - was something no country could avoid, but that each nation must go through it sooner or later. In his later analysis of the evils of capitalism, Zheng Zhenduo pointed out that "there is no room for societies dominated by capitalism."^ Chinas progressive intellectuals began to undergo profound changes, moving from a longing for Western parliamentary democracy to a feeling of disappointment in it, and from  a pursuit of capitalism to a negative view of it. At that time, the journal Min Xing recorded, "Republicanism is not our end. A worldwide revolution is inevitable. 
The idol in the minds of the people collapsed, but the road carried on. There were great political changes happening around the world, partly ushered in by World War I and the October Revolution in Russia, so that a group of scholars concerned about the future of the motherland and the destiny of the Chinese people began to reconsider the transformation of social programs. At this time, Marxism captured the attention of progressives in China, creating a boom in the promotion of socialism.
Hundreds of publications advocating "social transformation" sprouted up, most of them favorably disposed toward, or even longing for, socialism. In many publications, practically every issue had at least one article introducing or pro¬moting socialism, and often several of such articles. In the articles written by some young people, socialism was lauded as a "a blessing for humanity," and it was believed that in China, "there must be construction to progress, and that construction must be in accordance with the principles of socialism."^ Socialism was seen as "the ideal for the present and future of humanity."
Though socialism had become exceedingly popular, it must be noted that the concept of "socialism" as discussed during this period was quite complex. In addition to Marxs scientific socialism, it also included various schools popu¬larly referred to as "socialism," including Stirner s "non-political individualism," Proudhons "social anarchism," Bakunins "collective anarchy," Kropotkins "mu¬tualism," and Saneatsu Mushakoji s "the new village doctrine," among others.
What is certain is that the spread of Chinese socialist ideology after the war was greatly influenced by the crisis Western capitalism was then facing. In 1920, when the journal The Communist Party was founded in Shanghai, it pointed out that "the transformation of the economy naturally accounts for the transformation of humankind, for the most part. Aside from the capitalist and socialist approach to the means of production, there is no other alternative. Capitalism in Europe and America has developed, and it has collapsed. It will be replaced by socialist production methods.
A good socialist society was desirable, but what did such a society look like, and how could it be achieved? At that time, news of the October Revolution in Russia came to China. Lenin had led the revolution to victory, so socialism was moving out of the theory books to become a living reality, and Marxism the ideological weapon used to effect this transformation. After the October Revolution, having survived civil war and foreign intervention, Russia now stepped firmly onto the world stage, presenting a stark contrast to the declining Western capitalism. As a result, Chinese intellectuals started to turn their attention to the Soviet Union, and to Marxism.
2.	The Spread of Marxism in China
The Chinese people came into contact with Marx and his theory quite early. From September 1902 through 1906, Liang Qichao published a number of articles introducing Marx and his teaching in Xinmin Congbao. In November 1905, the bourgeoisie democratic revolutionary Zhu Zhixin published an article entitled "A Short Review of the German Revolution" in the second issue of the People’s Daily, in which he introduced the life and teachings of Marx and Engels. Sun Yat-sen, Song Jiaoren, Liao Zhongkai, and others likewise mentioned Marxs teaching. Some anarchist writers also mentioned Marx and Engels by name in their journals and translated extracts of their works. However, these introductions were quite piecemeal, and some even misrepresented things, and many did not believe in Marxism, but were instead quite critical. Such articles could not have much of an impact on the revolution in China at that time. It was not until the May Fourth period, amid propaganda and agitation among Chinas intellectuals, that Marxism became an irresistible ideological trend.
Of those who were spreading Marxist thought during the May Fourth period, the most influential were Li Dazhao and Chen Duxiu. They influenced a whole generation of Chinese people, both ideologically and politically.
Li Dazhao was the first person to spread Marxist thought in China, and he played a leading role in early propaganda work. From July to November 1918, he published "A Comparative Analysis of the French and Russian Revolutions," "The Victory of the Common People," "The Victory of Bolshevism," and other similar articles. Through his in-depth historical view, he helped promote the value and significance of the October Revolution. After the May Fourth Movement, he compiled all the articles he had edited for New North and published them in Volume 5 of the six-volume Marxist Studies, and published the text My view of Marxism marking the first time Marxist economic theory, historical materialism, and the theory of socialism were fully elaborated in China. Li fully affirmed the Marxist historical position, calling it an "original theory for world reform." He said that Marxist socialist theory could be divided into three parts: i) the theory of the past, or the theory of history, 2) the theory of the present, or economic theory, also referred to as the economic theory of capitalism, and 3) the theory of the future, or political theory, also termed the socialist movement theory or social democracy. It was noted that "his teaching is a self-contained organic, systematic organization." This teaching included Marx's theory of history, which revealed the social development of material and class relations, elucidating the theory of productive forces and relations of production, economic foundations, and superstructures, and his theories of class and class struggle. Marx's economic theory clarified, "The theory of residual labor and value" exposes "the secrets of modern capitalism" and "the way in which the capitalists plundered labor," a fundamental concept in Marx's economic theory. Marx observed modern society's economic situation through the lens of the concepts of historical materialism and surplus value, and in analyzing and studying the capitalist economic system, he foresaw the need to replace it with a socialist system. He then asserted that "the final obstacle to realizing a socialist system is class competition." Li Dazhao emphasized that Marx's "three theories are inextricably linked, and class competition is like a golden thread running through them, forming a fundamental link between the three principles." After that, Li published "The Marxist Philosophy of History" and other articles to promote historical materialism. He also set up courses in historical materialism, socialism, and the socialist movement at Peking University and the Peking Girl's High School. In the course on the Marxist system of thought, he focused on historical materialism propaganda, rejecting his urgent enthusiasm for seeking out theoretical guidance in addressing the Chinese problem.
Unlike Li Dazhao, Chen Duxiu was formerly a radical democratic who became a Marxist, coming onto the scene later than Li. However, as long-time editor of New Youth, Chen had a certain reputation in the New Cultural Movement, and so soon became the most influential promoter of Marxism in China. In March 1920, he came into contact with Marxism via the article "Malthusian Population Theory and the Chinese Population Problem." From there, he began making some criticisms of the Malthusian theory, while holding onto some reservations about Marxism. In the subsequent speech "Worker's Consciousness," Chen expressed the Marxist views that "labor has created the world" and that "workers are the most useful and valuable class." He emphasized that the ancients had said that "Those who govern use their minds: those who are governed, their bodies." He said that it was correct to reverse the statement to read, "Those who use their bodies govern, while those who use their minds are governed.
Of course, the real change Chens thought underwent, going from review, approval, then on to advocacy, and finally to promoting socialism, began with the September 1920 article "On Politics." In the revolutionary article, Chen criticized anarchy's opposition to politics, to the law, to power, and to the views of the state, pointing out that the root of all the world's inequalities lay in the existence of the bourgeoisie. "The removal of this injustice, this bitter suffering, can only be achieved when the oppressed working class is given new strength and gains national status. When the bourgeoisie is completely overthrown through political, legal, and other means, then we can expect to remove the private ownership of property, along with the labor wage and other systems, thereby removing inequality in the economic situation." In saying this, he offered support for Marxist thought and positions, showing that he was clearly in favor of Marxism and its use of the "revolutionary hand to build nations for the working class (i.e. the productive class), and to build up political or legal systems to prohibit all internal and external plundering as the top priority for a modern society.
Chen had a sense of historic mission and an ideal of opposing warlord politics and pursuing the well-being of the people. As a revolutionary with a strong sense of action, he had an affinity for the Marxist theory of social revolution. He founded publications, organized groups, and wrote articles to expose the evils of the capitalist system and disseminate socialist ideology, becoming a driving force behind the spread of Marxism in China.
Comparing Li and Chen, Li's most important achievement was establishing a firm historical materialism, believing in the usefulness of mobilizing the masses in the historical process and recognizing the power of social development lying in the inherent nature of the people rather than any external force/" It was because of this fundamental understanding that Li emphasized both theory and practice and actively participated with the masses.
Besides Li and Chen, many students who had also studied in Japan, such as Li Da, Yang Anan, and Li Hanjun, had come into contact with Marxism, which they in turn promoted in China through numerous translations and publications. Li Da translated Historical Materialism, Marxist Economic Theory, and An Overview of Social Issues, which he sent back to be published in China. Marxist Economic Theory was included in the Marxist research bibliography established by Li Dazhao at Peking University. Having returned to China, Yang published several articles in the Guangdong publication China News,  including "Socialism" and "Marxism: Scientific Socialism," from October to December 1919. The former praised Marx’s Das Kapital calling it a "socialist classic."The latter systematically introduced Marxist historical materialism and the theories of class struggle and surplus value. In 1919, Li Hanjun worked for two years before the Communist Party was established on translating and writing over 60 articles about Marxism. Shao Piaoping, another progressive news reporter, also contributed to the spread of Marxism.
3.	Disputes and Decisions During the Spread of Marxism in China
During the May Fourth period, among those who introduced and studied Marxist thought, some did not believe it to be true, or to be a tool that would bring about transformation in China, while others saw it as a type of Western thinking and did not link it to what was happening in China. Still others sought to prevent China from pursuing a Marxist path and began to search for ways to block it. In terms of class attributes, Marxism was a theory committed to liberating the working classes, so it was naturally not accepted by representatives of other classes. For this reason, the spread of Marxism in China, especially in the early days, when Marxist scholars sought to connect the theory to the fate of China, could not be done without dispute. Marxism could only progress through struggle.
The first dispute arose over the cultural choices for China, that is, the question of whether Chinas issues should be solved under the guidance of Marxism. In July 1919, Hu Shih, one of the advocates of the May Fourth New Cultural Movement, published an article entitled "More Study of the Issues and Less Talk about Ideology," triggering a heated debate in scholarly circles from July through September of that year. Armed with his theory based on empiricism, Hu believed that "the greatest danger to public opinion is the ideologies on paper, which do not look deeply into the real issues in China today." He went on to say, "The first duty of one who wants to understand public opinion is to carefully examine the true social situation. All theory and all ideology are only for the purpose of this study." He was very disgusted with what he saw as the popular "empty talk" of his day.
After the publication of Hus article, Li Dazhao and Lan Gongwu wrote a rebuttal. From their perspective, all the issues were intertwined with an all- encompassing social structure, and the problem-solving ideological propositions needed only to be tested through social experimentation. People needed to apply ideology when evaluating situations and problems, and as tools for solving such inter-connected problems. Li agreed with Hus view that actual problems needed to be studied seriously and that vague talk about ideology was to be avoided, but he saw no basic conflict between problem studies and ideological discussions. He pointed out that "solving a social problem requires the collective action of the majority of the people," and went on to say that, "to turn a social issue into a public concern of the majority of the people," it was necessary to "first have an ideal and ideology moving toward a common direction," and finally, "On the one hand, our social movement must study actual problems, and on the other, must promote ideal doctrines. These are interconnected, and they are parallel." At the same time, he pointed out that the study of the issues must be based on theory, and that before any problems could be studied, it was necessary to study many ideologies."
In fact, the "issue vs. ideology" dispute helped advance the thinking of intellectuals of that time, particularly in the areas of the development of ideology and the fate of modern Chinese history. Hu Shih tried to persuade people to spend less time talking about theory, arguing instead that China did not need to undergo a profound revolution to address the problems he had pointed to. Li Dazhao pointed out that the popularity of Bolshevism was a great change in global culture, particularly noting the significance of the theory of class struggle as a key component of historical materialism. If one did not attach significance to class struggle, failing to apply theory as a tool to guide the workers to come together in an actual movement, then economic revolution would never be achieved. Through this argument, Li and the young Marxists around the country demonstrated Marxist thought suitable to Chinas needs, according to the level of knowledge at that time. This had a positive effect on the spread of Marxism.
The "issue vs. ideology"debate further aroused ideological thought for Chinas future in scholarly circles. In September 1920, Zhang Dongsun published his article "A Lesson from Traveling in the Mainland" in Shanghai, in which he states that there was only one way forward for China, and that was to increase wealth through the development of industry. He later added that the quickest way to develop industry was through capitalism. Early Marxists criticized this argument severely, forming the "questi on of socialism" controversy to be addressed as Marxism continued to spread. In May 1921, Li Da pointed out in New Youth that China was the world’s market, that capitalist countries had already founded deep-rooted, unbreakable economic ties in China, and that faced with an era of immature industry and with heavy political and economic pressure from other countries, the development of capitalism and war with other capitalist countries would have been quite disastrous.
In the debate with Zhang Dongsun and others, the early Marxists drew contrasts between socialism and capitalism and, in demonstrating the advantages and disadvantages of each system, showed that only socialism was capable of developing Chinas productive forces. Li Dazhao wrote, "In China today, the development of industry will have to be achieved through a government organized by pure producers to eradicate the domestic classes that plunder others, to resist capitalism in this world, and to proceed according to a socialist organization of commerce." Chen Duxiu likewise emphasized that he wanted “ all Chinese to have a life, and that if capitalist means of production are not abolished, socialist means of production cannot be established." He added, "At this time, we in China can talk not just about the possibility of socialism, but must discuss its necessity as well." This indicated that the path to socialism was the common preference among early Communists in their debates, and that the preference of this system pointed to the need to develop Chinas advanced production forces.
The third dispute was with the anarchists. In the early days of the May Fourth Movement, anarchism spread widely among young intellectuals, which had a positive effect on opposing the autocratic monarchy and enlightening people s ideological consciousness. However, this came from an extreme form of individualism, advocating the absolute freedom of the individual and opposing any organization or discipline, as well as all power, authority, and nations, advocating anarchy and absolute egalitarianism. They opposed Marxist national doctrine and the proletarian dictatorship, thus becoming a major obstacle to the spread of Marxism. In this way, before the debate concerning socialism with Zhang Dongsun and the others had finished, another debate - this over anarchism - began with Huang Lingshuang and other anarchists. In this debate, New Youth, The Communist Party  and other journals published special articles criticizing anarchism. In January 1922, Pioneer, a journal published among Chinas socialist youth movement, published a special issue focused on criticism of anarchism.
Marxist criticism of anarchism revolved around the form of revolution, the nature of the state, and the necessity of the rule of the proletariat. On the one hand, they pointed out that the Chinese proletariat had endured much under the long plunder of imperialism and capitalism, and that this unbearable suffering led to a strong need for the seizing of state power through violent revolution. On the other hand, it was pointed out that only by the dictatorship of the proletariat could the interests of the workers be protected. Therefore, the feudal aristocratic or bourgeois state must be completely overturned and the state power of the proletariat must be consolidated and strengthened, which was the correct path from capitalism to communism. The Marxists further criticized the anarchists' egalitarianism over the issue of distribution, focusing on refuting their fallacy of "absolute freedom." They pointed out that, in human society, freedom is always relative, and that "absolute freedom" simply does not exist. The scope of the struggle against anarchy was quite great.
The confrontation between Marxism and competing schools of thought was the first one in the spread of Marxism, and it had a far-reaching influence on Chinese thought. In the course of this debate, with unwavering faith, the early Marxists courageously took up the theoretical weapon of Marxism and used it to criticize various improper thoughts embraced by the bourgeoisie and petty bourgeoisie. In hopes of saving their country and its people, they were determined to transform the progress of Chinese society and enter a new age. After this confrontation, during which the scientific and truthful nature of Marxism was first demonstrated, it was widely acknowledged that only scientific socialism could achieve national salvation, fundamentally transforming the goals of Chinese society. In the process of establishing their own beliefs and choices about what sort of ideology would transform China, and in finally settling on scientific socialism, they became Marxists and quickly began spreading Marxist thought, bringing together masses of workers to create the early organization of the Communist Party of China.
II Establishing Communist Party of China on the Guiding Principles of Marxism 
1.	The Struggle of China s Early Marxists
Once the progressive elements in China had accepted Marxism, they immediately applied it to their studies of the situation and problems in China. This sort of orientation toward practical values reflected the ideological situation of Chinese intellectuals at the time. After the May Fourth Movement, a trend toward social transformation was on the rise. The Work and Mutual Aid Group, established in 1919, was sponsored by Chen Duxiu, Li Dazhao, Cai Yuanpei, and other well- known figures. This trend of encouraging young people to step up in society served to promote a greater social consciousness in China. At the same time, the disputes with non-Marxist schools of thought helped to push early Marxists to study actual issues in China. Not long after Hu Shih promoted his idea that "more research be dedicated to the issues," many socialists and their followers turned their attention to the workers and peasants, studying their living conditions. By contrast, Hu and his followers were rarely engaged in such social surveys and labor movements.
Li Dazhao made outstanding contributions to the development of the orientation toward practical value. Even before the May Fourth Movement, he had published many articles on the subject, encouraging young people to work in cooperation with the masses to dive into the social situation in China. Under Lis influence, in March 1919, Deng Zhongxia and other young students organized a series of educational lectures at Peking University, aimed at educating and mobilizing the population. After the May Fourth Movement, Li went with a group of revolutionaries in Beijing to investigate the living conditions of rickshaw workers. At the same time, he organized a group that included Deng Zhongxia and Zhang Guotao to go to the Changxindian Railway to do publicity, establish remedial labor schools and workers' clubs, and organize the labor force.
In March 1920, the Peking University Civilians Lecture Group not only gave speeches in the city, but also went to factories in Lugouqiao, Changxindian, Tbngxian, and other rural places to deliver lectures, conduct surveys, and try to gain some understanding of the people from the lower classes. They used their school holidays to travel to factories and rural villages to deliver lectures on "What is Civil Education," "The Republican Spirit," and similar topics. Through these lectures, these young intellectuals got a taste of the hardships the workers and peasants faced, saw how backward their education was, and sought ways to make their message more easily understood by the peasants so that they could instill new ideas in the rural people. Deng Zhongxia gained great experience through the lectures at Changxindian, which served as a foundation for him to later become a labor leader in the workers' movement.
Another way the Marxists came to grips with the reality of their situation was to set up supplemental schools, night schools, and literacy classes for workers, as well as numerous workers' clubs. In this way, they could instill scientific socialist thought in the minds of the workers, cultivating a backbone upon which their later work would stand, and organize large groups of workers to form a foundation for the struggle that would allow them to establish trade unions and lead the workers. At the same time, these activities were conducive to establishing close connections between the Marxists and the lower classes, encouraging greater participation in the struggle among the working classes. This method of educating the masses was used often by the Party's workers' movements.
On May 1, 1920, the International Labor Day Commemorative Event marked an important beginning in the Chinese Marxist Workers' Movement. They took this opportunity to promote the value of labor among the workers, the great role of the working class, and the evil of the capitalist system, and called on the working class to fight together. In Shanghai, Chen Duxiu personally participated in and guided a joint meeting between the Chinese Industry Association, the Chinese Federation ofTrade Unions, and five other industry groups, co-sponsored with the preparations for the Labor Day Commemorative Event. At the event, the speaker talked of the sanctity of labor, arousing the people's passion. The resolutions included 1) require an eight hour work day, 2) organize real work unions for the people, and 3) foster cooperation among the masses. After the meeting, these seven groups published A Reply to the Russian Labor Groups,  in which was stated, "We must strive to create a new, beautiful world with permanent peace among all humankind, and we have decided to take up the responsibility to cooperate with you."
A similar commemorative event was simultaneously held in Beijing. On May 1, classes were not convened at Peking University, allowing more than five 
hundred workers and students to hold the commemorative event on campus that day. Li Dazhao delivered a speech at the meeting. Work and study groups went together in cars to hold parades in the eastern and western parts of the city. Fluttering banners went before the cars, with slogans such as "The Sanctity of Labor" and "Long Live May i" written on them in red characters, with red flags erected behind the cars to manifest a revolutionary spirit. Chanting the slogan "Long Live Labor," they distributed printed brochures of The May First Labor Declaration in Beijing  from either side of the cars.
Alongside workers and students in Shanghai and Beijing, those from other areas, such as Tangshan, Harbin, Jiujiang, Guangzhou, Shantou, and Zhangzhou, likewise held commemorative events. This was the first time Marxism was integrated into Chinas Labor Movement activities. In this regard, Cai Hesen commented, "Chinas first May Day was widely publicized, with 10,000 copies of New Youth issued, so the event had a great, universal impact."
Mao Zedong was a model of early Marxism in practice. As early as the autumn of 1919, he organized a seminar in Changsha. This seminar was conducted for the purpose of studying politics, economics, social issues, education, labor, international affairs, and other issues, as well as to explore ways to unite the people, the feasibility of socialism, and issues concerning Confucianism. There were more than 140 topics in all. Mao was often deeply involved with the railway workers, masonry workers, porters, and other manual laborers. He made friends with them as he set up night schools and established trade unions. In order to draw nearer to the workers, Mao often removed his gown and wore a short tunic as he went among them. He learned the language of the workers, came to understand their demands, and became familiar with their lives.
The practical publicity of the Marxist intellectuals involved in-depth promotion among the workers and farmers as they organized the workers and sought to promote ways of integrating Marxism into the Chinese Workers' Movement. At the same time, their own thoughts and feelings also underwent a change, gradually transforming them into pioneer warriors who had attained a communist mindset. Workers and farmers started to pick up Marxist thought, from which a number of progressives with communist ideals emerged. The conditions in China were ripe for the establishment of the Communist Party. 
2.	Creation of the Party and Establishment of the Marxist Revolution in China
With the spread of Marxism, the decision to gradually integrate it into the Chinese Workers' Movement, and the emergence of progressives with communist ideals, it was natural that the next issue on the agenda was the organization of the working class into Party organs. Li Dazhao said, "Even though it is not currently possible to say for sure what the strength of Chinas working class is, if the friends of the C group can establish a strong, sophisticated organization, giving attention to the training of the members in their groups, then China may be ready for complete reform."^ While attending the Montargis Conference of the New Citizen Study Society, Cai Hesen said that no matter what it cost, the proletarian revolution "must build a party first, that is, the Communist Party." This was because the Party was "the promoter of the revolutionary movement, its advocate, vanguard, and army." With the Party, revolutionary and labor movements would have a nerve centerC This showed that Chinas progressive elements had placed their confidence in the Communist Party.
Under the leadership of Li Dazhao, the Marxist Research Society of Peking University was established in March 1920. This was the earliest institute in China set up specifically for the purpose of studying Marxism. Its membership was comprised mainly of students from Peking University, the leading members among them being Deng Zhongxia, Guo Junyu, Huang Rikui, Fan Hongjie, He Mengxiong, Li Jun, Zhu Wushan, Zhang Guotao, Liu Renjing, Luo Zhanglong, and others. This was a faction that believed in the inevitability of Marxism, and their goal was to establish the Communist Party. It was at this time that the Communist Party International representative Grigori Voitinsky came to China. His task was to understand the Chinese situation, to make contact with progressive forces in China, and to investigate whether it was possible to establish the Communist International East Asia Secretariat in Shanghai. In his numerous discussions with Li Dazhao and others, he said he wanted their support and assistance in establishing the work of the Communist Party. Through Lis introduction, Voitinsky traveled to Shanghai to meet Chen Duxiu. Based on his observation and survey in Beijing and Shanghai, Voitinsky felt the work for the establishment of the Party had matured and suggested that Chen organize  the Communist Party of China. This was completely in accord with Chens own thinking. Chen introduced Voitinsky to Li Hanjun, who was busy promoting socialism in the Weekly Preview, along with other editors. After numerous discus¬sions, they decided to set up an underground group until the Party was ready to be formally established. In May that year, Shanghai s Marxist research institute was established, led by Chen Duxiu, and with Li Hanjun, Shen Xuanlu, Shao Lizi, Chen Wangdao, Shi Cuntong, Yu Xiusong, Shen Yanbing, Yang Mingzhai, and others as members.
The Comintern representative remained at this time to offer guidance in the work of establishing the Communist Party for East Asian countries, preparing to set up the East Asian Secretariat in Shanghai, with sections responsible for the work in China, Korea, and Japan. With Voitinsky s efforts, "the work in the Chinese section went smoothly. Because of the workers'and students'organizations in Beijing, Shanghai,Tianjin, Guangzhou, Hankou, Nanjing, and other cities, the foundations for the communist organizations have been laidT° In August 1920, Chen Duxiu, Li Hanjun, Shen Xuanlu, Chen Wangdao, Yu Xiusong, Shi Cuntong (in Japan), Tang Mingzhai, Li Da, and others initiated the formal establishment of the Shanghai Communist Party. As soon as this organization was set up, it took on the task of building the national Party. Shortly after the establishment of the Shanghai Party Organization, a lecturer from Beijing Normal University, Zhang Shenfu, invited the British philosopher Bertrand Russell to Shanghai to deliver lectures. In Chens home, the two held many broad discussions on the establishment of the Party. They thought that, since they were able to draw people into the Party, it was best to absorb those people, and that Li Dazhao should establish a Communist Organization in Beijing. In late September, Zhang Shenfu brought Chens views to Beijing to discuss party building matters with Li, and it was agreed that they should immediately start developing Party members. At the beginning of October, Zhang Guotao returned to Beijing to participate in discussions on party building and to tell Li about Chens suggestions for establishing the Party in Beijing. So the trio of Li Dazhao, Zheng Shenfu, and Zhang Guotao formally established the Beijing Communist Party Organization in Lis office. The Communist Party of Beijing was the main base for propagating Marxism in Northern China and cultivating revolutionary personnel.
The Party organizations in various areas were driven by the establishment of the Shanghai and Beijing branches to pursue the establishment of the Party 
Oronnization on their own soil. From late 1920 through the first half of 1921, Dong Biwu, Chen Tanqiu, and others in Wuhan, Chen Gongbo, Tan Pingshan, and others in Guangzhou, Mao Zedong, He Shuheng, and others in Changsha, Wang Jinmei, Deng Enming, and others in Jinan, Shi Cuntong, Zhou Fuhai, and others in Japan, and Zhang Shenfu, Zhao Shiyan, Chen Gongpei, Zhou Enlai, and others in France all established branches of the Communist Party in their respective locations. The names of these early organizations were not uniform. The Shanghai organization was originally called the Communist Party of China, while the Beijing organization was called the Communist Party of China, Beijing Branch. They were local branches of the subsequent Communist Party of China, though later, people developed the habit of calling them the "Communism Group." Most of the members of these organizations were progressives who had developed their knowledge during the May Fourth Movement. In their understanding of Marxism and their observation of the actual issues in China, they had gone deeper into these matters than other people of their generation. The above branches of the Communist Party had been formed in many places, setting the stage to officially initiate the Communist Party of China.
The local organizations moved from a decentralized focus to concentrate on the establishment of a unified national level Communist Party organization, remaining under the guidance of the Comintern. In June 1921, the Comintern Communist sent Malyn and Nikolsky from the Secretariat in Irkutsk to Shanghai, where they proposed the immediate convening of the National General Assembly for the purpose of formally establishing the Communist Party of China. Subsequently, Li Da gave notice to the local Party organizations, asking each to send two representatives to the meeting. On July 23, the First National Congress of the Communist Party of China was officially convened in Shanghai. Those in attendance included Li Da, Li Hanjun, Zhang Guotao, Liu Renjing, Mao Zedong, He Shuheng, Dong Biwu, Chen Tanqiu, Wang Jingmei, Deng Enming, Chen Gongbo, Zhou Fuhai, and Bao Huiceng, representing more than fifty members around the country. Malyn and Nikolsky attended the meeting, though Li Dazhao was unable to attend the meeting. Chen Duxiu was unable to attend the meeting, either, but he commissioned Bao Huiceng to raise the ideas that "the entire party should be democratic, should believe in communism, and should be committed to achieving the rule of the proletariat and the implementation of communism" as issues for the General Assembly to discuss. 
The First Program  of the Communist Party of China, adopted by the General Assembly, stipulated that "the Party is to be named the Communist Party of China" and that "the Party's objective is to overthrow the power of the capitalist class" and "recognize the inalienable right to rule of the proletariat," to "eradicate capitalism and private ownership of property" and "join the Comintern." The essence of the Party program lay in the implementation of socialist revolution and replacing capitalism with communism.
After the establishment of the Party, there was a heated debate about the allocation of work. Li Hanjun and others believed that the Chinese proletariat was too naive and did not understand Marxist thought, so they advocated the unity of progressive intellectuals who would engage in Marxist studies and publicity. Most delegates disagreed with this opinion, believing the Party must concentrate on socialist struggle and engage in practical work. The CPC decided at the first session to make the workers' movement the focus of its efforts and to make specific arrangements for Party work. This was reflected in the First Resolution of the Communist Party of China (hereafter referred to as the Resolution). The Resolution provided that the basic task of the Party was the establishment of industrial unions, and "where there is more than one industrial sector, they should be organized into trade unions." Further, "the Party will instill the spirit of class struggle." It emphasized the need to set up workers' schools to raise workers' consciousness in order to guide the workers' movement. In view of the small number of Party members and the imperfect local organizations, the Party's General Assembly, for the purpose of guiding and driving the workers' movement, would not set up the Central Committee, but instead, the Central Bureau to lead the work of the entire Party. The General Assembly elected three members to the Central Bureau, Chen Duxiu, Li Da, and Zhang Guotao. Chen served as Secretary, Li as Head of the Publicity Committee, and Zhang as Head of Party Organization.
The establishment of the Communist Party of China marked the beginning of a new epoch in Chinese history. It was a new party for the working class in China, with the goal of ushering in communism through struggle and with Marxist thought as the unified guiding principle for the action of the Party. Though the Party was still quite weak, it actually represented progressive forces that met the requirements for the development of the nation, representing the
direction. Chinese culture must take in order to advance so that the Chinese people could develop trust in the leadership and its strong core.
Despite its lack of an understanding of the particularity of Chinese society and the revolution and generally following the proletarian party's program from capitalist countries, in essence, the program stipulated by the CPC at the first National Congress still brought the principle of Marxist proletarian revolution in as the foundation of the Party. Marxist theory had yet to be integrated into the actual situation in China, a fact the early Marxist thinkers in China were keenly aware of As mentioned earlier, in August 1919, Li Dazhao had mentioned in a chapter of Another look at Issues and Ideology that "if a socialist is to give his theory some impact, he must consider how it may be put into practice." Liu Renjing wrote in a letter to Yun Daiying in December 1920, "We are always seeking a communism that fits our nationW Though the idea is clear, to really combine "issues" and "ideology" and to "find a policy that integrates communism into the national situation" was a huge task for the Communist Party of China, which was unattainable within a period as short as the first CPC National Congress. It had to come about through a long period of struggle, with many victories and many defeats. Only through this long process of struggle could communism be realized. 
CHAPTER 2
The New Democratic Revolution Period: Proposing the Basic Question of a Guiding Ideology
 The Communist Party’s Early Exploration of Fundamental Questions of Chinese Revolution 
1.	Proposing Revolutionary Practice and the Program of Democratic Revolution
After a year-long process of founding the Communist Party of China, through the study and mastery of Marxism and the practice of revolutionary struggle, some basic understanding was beginning to form with regard to fundamental issues such as the domestic and foreign situation, China s social condition, and the question of the Chinese revolution.
During this period, the international and domestic situation were character¬ized by imperialist countries' renewed efforts to reestablish their position, their aggression constituting a clear attempt to wreak further havoc on China. Domes¬tically, conflicts and power plays among various warlords were further agitated. Under these circumstances, the political forces of various parties offered different proposals and advocated different means for China to find a way out. The ruling class, made up of warlords controlling the central government at a given time, advocated "the unification of armed forces," while each provincial warlord demanded "autonomy" or the "self-government of the Federation." In essence, these two opposing claims aimed to safeguard the interests of the various warlords themselves, rather than solving the problems faced by China. Among the bour¬geoisie, some reformists, represented by Hu Shih, advocated the establishment of "good government" in the hope that "good governors" would save the country without needing to oppose imperialism or overthrow warlord rule. When asked how the "good governors" would come to power and how they would rule in practice once they came to power, these advocates had no answer. Although Sun Yat-sen held to the position of the democratic revolution, he did not go so far as to put forward the program of mobilizing the masses to fight in the revolution. In November 1920, when the Guangdong army expelled Gui warlord forces from Guangdong, Sun returned from Shanghai to Guangzhou to re-establish the "protection of the law." In April 1921, he was elected as a member of parliament through a special election held in Guangdong, becoming the first president of the Republic of China. He planned to rely on the forces of Chen Jiongming to launch the Northern Expedition, using Guangdong as a base. Though Chen, a member of the Kuomintang, ostensibly supported Suns cause, even promoting the pursuit of socialism, he secretly accepted imperialist measures and covertly colluded with the warlords. In June 1922, the armed rebellion showed itself openly, finally exposing Chens reactionary act as an imperialist tool. Sun was forced to leave Guangzhou, his enforcement campaign a complete failure.
Where was China to go? What was the way forward for the Chinese people? Many patriots spread false ideas in answer to these questions, creating confusion and turmoil. It was in this milieu that the CPC applied the basic principles of Marxist-Leninist thought to their actual situation and first proposed a program of democratic revolution in China.
When the Communist Party of China grasped the notion of using socialism to overthrow the dark rule of reactionaries through class struggle, they probed more deeply into the actual struggle in their own context and discovered that the semi-colonial, semi-feudal conditions under which they were living meant that the most urgent need for the Chinese people was not to immediately initiate a socialist revolution. Because foreign capital controlled most of China's modern industry, whether in Shanghai, Changsha, Hong Kong, or any other city, a strike or workers' movement would inevitably lead to a clash with the imperialists, and the degree of opposition to imperialism differed from place to place. Even if workers were simply to demand better living conditions, such economic struggles could easily turn into political struggles against imperialism and opposition to the warlord government. The imperialist forces constantly colluded with the feudal warlords, doing everything possible to undermine and even suppress the forces of mass struggle. The Communist Party of China realized that the actual struggle in which the Chinese revolution should first engage had to be against imperial aggression and feudal warlordism, if the state were to be free and the people liberated, not to mention achieving the ideals of socialism and communism. For this reason, some goals were shared by the CPC and Chinese bourgeois democrats for the revolutionary struggle in China. This fact furthered the understanding of the basic issues concerning the Chinese revolution, leading to the practice and promotion of the CPC's socialist ideals and determining the objectives of the struggle and corresponding strategies for carrying it out.
During the process of exploring and formulating a revolutionary program suited to national conditions in China, the CPC obtained help and guidance from Lenin and the Comintern (or Communist International). This played an important role in setting the Party's direction and helping it correctly grasp the progress of Chinas revolution.
During this period, on the one hand, the Party explored the basic issues of the Chinese revolution through revolutionary practice. On the other, it accepted Lenins theory of ethnic and colonial issues. As it began to combine these two views, a revolutionary program generally suited to Chinas national conditions percolated and gradually took form.
The Party first put together propaganda aimed at organizing trade unions and youth league organizations to promote anti-imperialist, anti-feudal political ideas. In May 1922, the First National Labor Conference and the First Congress of the Chinese Socialist Youth League were held, and the CPC put forward the political slogans, "overthrow imperialism" and "overthrow the warlords."
On June 15, 1922, the Central Committee of the CPC issued The Communist Party of China’s Position  on the Current Situation. The focus of this pamphlet was an analysis of the 1911 Revolution, the collusion between foreign imperialists and Chinese feudal warlords, and the Chinese peoples history of oppression and their current situation. It pointed to imperialist aggression and warlord politics as Chinas internal concerns, noting that foreign invasion was the root cause of all the suffering the people were then enduring. The document criticized feudal armies for the current situation and responded to the reactionary arguments spread by the bourgeois reformists by pointing out that in solving the current issues, the key was to overthrow imperialism and the feudal warlords through revolutionary means so that a democratic political system could be established. The document went on to state that in order to achieve the most urgent task faced by the proletariat at that time, the CPC advocated setting up a united democratic front that included the CPC, the Kuomintang, and other revolutionary parties and groups, whereby they could confront the common enemy and free the Chinese people from the dark oppression of imperialism and the feudal warlords.
This was the first time the CPC had made a major public announcement regarding the democratic revolution in China, stating its own political views and explaining their roots in the combination of Marxism-Leninism and the analysis of the current situation in China. It marked a new beginning for the revolutionary question in China and a completion of the formulation of the Party's democratic revolution. It also set the political agenda and laid a foundation for the Second National Congress of the Communist Party of China.
The CPC held its Second National Congress in Shanghai on July 16-23, 1922. The Declaration of the Second National Congress of the Communist Party of China, passed by the Congress, was a significant historical document. Its analysis of the history of capitalism and imperialist aggression against China and the Chinese community evolving into a semi-colonial and semi-feudal society emphasized that "all sorts of facts have proven that the greatest suffering of the Chinese people, whether bourgeois workers or peasants, is capitalist imperialism and the feudal forces of warlord bureaucrats. For this reason, the democratic revolutionary movement opposing those two forces is extremely significant. It is through the success of the democratic revolution that independence and relative freedom can be obtained." On the basis of its analysis of the international and domestic situations and the nature of Chinese society, the declaration proposed that given the historical conditions of that time, the Party's goals were to eliminate strife and overthrow the warlords so that domestic peace could be established, to overthrow the foreign imperialists' unjust oppression so that the complete independence of the Chinese nation could be achieved, and to unify China as a true democratic republic. In fact, the formulation of the program for democratic revolution was the minimum requirement for the Party's anti¬imperialist, anti-feudalist agenda at that time. The declaration further pointed out that the Party's goal was to "organize the proletariat and employ class struggle as a means for establishing the dictatorship of the proletariat, eradicating the system of private ownership of property, and gradually attaining a communist society." This indicated that The Declaration of the Second National Congress of the Communist Party of China adhered to the ultimate goals of the Party as stipulated in the First National Congress, maintaining this as its main agenda.
The Declaration of the Second National Congress of the Communist Party of China tentatively clarified the nature, objectives, motives, and policies of the Chinese revolution at that stage, offering a brief summary of the missions and goals and indicating a future direction for the revolution. This summary indicated that the nature of the movement was a democratic revolution, its object was the overthrow of imperialism and the feudal warlords, its impetus was the workers, peasants, petty bourgeoisie, and national bourgeoisie who would form one of the revolutionary forces, its strategy was to be forming a united front at various levels, its task was the overthrow of the warlords and foreign imperialists so that the independence and reunification of the Chinese nation could be realized, and its future was to be a transformation into a socialist revolution.
The Second National Congress of the Communist Party of China marked the first time the goal of carrying out a democratic revolution and establishing socialism in the future was stated not merely as a means of opposing imperialism and the feudal warlords, but as a combined objective with that endeavor, noting that democratic revolution was a step in the process of creating the conditions in which socialism and communism could be established. This indicated a profound understanding of China's national conditions and the issue of Chinese revolution on the part of the CPC. The integration of the basic tenets of Marxism with China's national condition was one of the Party's important achievements, in that it indicated the correct path for the Chinese revolution to attain independence and liberation for a nation mired in suffering. The determination directly made by the First Congress was that it would first engage in a democratic revolution then shift from there to a socialist revolution, marking a major shift in the Party's strategic policy.
The Second National Congress of the CPC made a preliminary distinction  between the concrete links between the democratic and socialist revolutions. The Declaration of the Second National Congress of the Communist Party of China states, "The democratic revolution has succeeded, but the proletariat has not been able to win some freedom and rights, nor has complete liberation been achieved. But with the success of the democratic revolution, the naive bourgeoisie will develop rapidly and come to a position of confrontation with the proletariat. For this reason, the proletariat must operate at the level of the bourgeoisie and carry out the second step of 'the dictatorship of the proletariat combined with poor peasants? If this succeeds, the second step in the democratic revolution, class struggle, will be an instant success." The CPC estimated two possible outcomes for the future of the democratic revolution. The first was that if the power of the proletariat showed great development through the process of revolution, victory in the democratic revolution would be sufficient to enable the immediate implementation of the dictatorship of the proletariat. The other possibility was that with the victory of the democratic revolution, the bourgeoisie would "seize power from feudalism," requiring the proletariat to go through a long period to make itself strong, after which it could carry out the second phase of revolution. At that time, the young Communist Party members made initial preparations to organize a workers' movement, but they lacked revolutionary experience. Some were influenced by the historical experience of bourgeois revolutions in Europe and the US, and so gave more thought to the second possibility as a direction for Chinas democratic revolution. Others, more influenced by Russian history from the February Revolution to the October Revolution, considered it preferable to move quickly from the democratic revolution to the socialist revolution. However, China was a semi-colonial, semi-feudal country with a complex national situation, so there was no clear answer to the question of which path would lead to the best future, making it impossible to know with any certainty.
A political party's policy is its banner. The revolutionary program proposed by the Second National Congress was the first statement of a persistent pursuit of the high ideals of the proletarian party in its struggle to establish a communist society, clearly putting forward the CPC's current course of action and its revolutionary task, which was to engage in anti-imperialist, anti-feudal democratic revolution. Just a year after its founding, the Communist Party of China was able to identify China's national conditions and establish the relationship between minor objectives and the overall objective. This demonstrated that it was only through the guidance of Marxism and an understanding of the real national condition in China that the Party could scientifically analyze the social situation tn China and accurately reflect the aspirations and demands of the Chinese people, thereby indicating the correct direction for the Chinese revolution so that the Party could shoulder the burden and take up the historical responsibility for leading the Chinese revolution.
In order to lead the Party's program of democratic revolution, the Second National Congress passed nine resolutions. The Resolutions on the Democratic United Front called for workers and peasants all over the country to unite under the banner of the Communist Party. At the same time, it proposed that all revolutionary parties and joint bourgeoisie level democrats organize as a united front for democracy and invited revolutionary parties such as the Kuomintang to hold joint meetings to discuss specific ways to cooperate. This was a change from the policy in the Declaration of the First National Congress of the Communist Party of China that prohibited contact with other parties. As the CPC's earliest proposal for a united front, it was of great importance for the development of the Chinese revolution.
2.	The Initial Formation of the Basic Ideas of the Chinese Revolution
In 1925, the May 30th Movement marked the height of the Great Revolution. The political attitude of all classes of Chinese society was more fully demonstrated in the internal leadership of the Revolutionary United Front,but the conflicts likewise grew increasingly evident. The rich, lively revolutionary practice provided many new lessons for Party members, and the complex revolutionary struggle brought to light many new issues that lacked readily available solutions. For instance, what was the nature of and development model for the Chinese revolution? What approach should the proletariat take to managing relationships among its various allies, such as the ethnic bourgeoisie, the urban petty bourgeoisie, and peasants? And without production, how could a class establish its own leadership in the midst of revolution? Both before and after the May goth Movement, Party leaders such as Chen Duxiu, Li Dazhao, Qu Qiubai, Mao Zedong, Cai Hesen, Deng Zhongxia, Zhou Enlai, and Yun Daiying acted on the basis of a summary of their practical experience in revolution to employ many aspects of revolutionary thought to probe into these issues and make a wide range of expositions in  an effort to elevate the Party's understanding of the basic issues related to the Chinese revolution, bringing it to a new level.
The Party's understanding of the nature and the future of the Chinese revolution underwent a gradual deepening process.The Second National Congress made it clear that the nature of the Chinese revolution was that of a bourgeoisie- democratic revolution against imperialism and feudal warlords, and that the future was socialism. In May 1923, Cai Hesen said, "The nature of the Chinese revolutionary movement is that of a democratic revolution, which is different from the bourgeoisie revolution in America.'"
After the May 30th Movement, the Communist Party held further discus¬sions regarding the nature of the revolution. Mao Zedong pointed out that the revolution in Europe, the US, Japan, and other places was "a bourgeoisie revo¬lution" that was "meant to build a state in which the nation is dominated by the bourgeoisie," while China's national revolution aimed "to reform the petty bourgeoisie, the semi-proletariat, and the proletariat," and its purpose was "to build a nation under the cooperation and rule of the revolutionary people.Qu Qiubai believed that in the age of imperialism - that is, the beginning of the social revolution - the weak nations in colonies "must contain the seeds of the proletarian revolution." But because "in the international arena, this revolution is nothing but a part of the worldwide proletarian revolution. Within the framework of a single country, even if it is only a bourgeoisie revolution, the bulk of the revolutionary force uses the proletariat as its main force."
Although Party members had not yet come up with the new concept of democratic revolution at that time, they had already begun to address the fundamental issues of their day, the revolutionary leadership and the goals of the struggle. In this, it was different from previous democratic revolutions. It was precisely for this reason that the Party's new theory of the democratic revolution could address those specific ideological conditions.
Regarding the future of the Chinese revolution, and particularly the issue of the relationship between the democratic revolution and the socialist revolution, the Fourth National Congress of the Communist Party of China believed that after the October Revolution, the "Chinese national revolutionary movement"was "a part of a larger worldwide revolution" that was "connected with all communist movements to overthrow capitalism." After the May 30th Movement, Qu Qiubai pointed out that "the revolution may be a bourgeoisie revolution, but the victory will not be a bourgeoisie victory, for if the bourgeoisie was victorious in the revolution, it would soon compromise with the enemy. He also pointed out that his time was the era of imperialism and the dawn of socialist revolution, so that "weaker, smaller private capitalism in the colonies will see no further development among the people,"^ making it possible for workers within those countries to systematically develop their economy in such a way as to gradually evolve toward socialism. He frequently pointed out that the democratic revolution in China was "the first step toward communism." Qu was correct to emphasize the importance of the proletariats role in leading the Chinese revolution and the non-capitalist nature of that revolution, but there were two misunderstandings in his thinking. First, he rejected the idea that the Chinese revolution would happen in two steps, and thus confused the boundaries between the democratic and socialist revolutions. His second misunderstanding lay in his view of the notion that a non-capitalist future required the immediate elimination of the private capitalist economy, leading him to propose an anti-bourgeoisie platform in the stage of the democratic revolution.
In the democratic revolution, determining how to understand and treat the bourgeoisie was a complicated issue. Party members' understanding of this issue was gradually deepened and enhanced. The First National Congress believed that the bourgeoisie was the object of the revolution, while the Second National Congress determined that the democrats and bourgeoisie could join forces. The Third National Congress came to the recognition that, to a certain extent, the bourgeoisie in China had two sides. By the Fourth National Congress, it was asserted more confidently that the bourgeoisie in China was divided into the counter-revolutionary "big business comprador class" and the "emerging national industry bourgeoisie." During the May 30th Movement, the national bourgeoisie initially actively participated in the struggle against imperialism, even playing an important role, but later it wavered and compromised, demonstrating its political fickleness. This ultimately provided objective conditions for the Party to conduct a more in-depth analysis of the characteristics of this class.
On December 1,1925, Mao Zedong published "An Analysis of All Classes of Chinese Society," in which he offered an excellent discussion on this issue. He wrote that the middle class held "a contradictory attitude" toward the revolution and "in receiving foreign investment, the warlords feel the pain of oppression, so they need a revolution, causing them to favor an anti-imperialist, anti-feudal revolutionary movement." However, when the revolution "has the courageous participation of its own proletariat, along with assistance from the international proletariat, their desire to achieve the status of big bourgeoisie makes them feel threatened, and they begin to doubt the revolution. The right wing of the Party intensified its struggle in the revolution, rushing to the aid of the imperialists and warlords, like any good comprador class. The left wing was quite revolutionary in some points, but because it compromised too easily, the revolution was not sustainable. For this reason, they could be taken as allies, but "we must be on our guard at all times, so that they will not disrupt our front. 
Gaining such recognition was very important. With the Kuomintang and the CPC uniting in their revolutionary efforts, it was necessary for the Party to mobilize the national bourgeoisie to join in the struggle while guarding against the latter s wavering and compromises. It was quite difficult for the fledgling CPC to resolve this conflict. Many Party members did not understand that as long as the proletariat firmly grasped political leadership in the national revolutionary movement, it would lead part, or even most, of the national bourgeoisie to adhere to the revolution, but its leaders needed to be frequently aware of events that might disrupt the revolution. Maos analysis of the national bourgeoisie more objectively reflected the actual situation of the class struggle at that time, providing an important theoretical basis for the Party to deepen its understanding and correctly handle its relations with the national bourgeoisie.
The peasants were another important issue to be addressed in the Chinese revolution. Before the Fourth National Congress, the Party had already come to recognize the important position peasants would hold in the revolution. The Fourth National Congress affirmed that the peasants were allies of the proletariat. In May 1925, the Resolution on the United Workers and Peasants, passed by the Second National Labor Conference to guide the peasants in the democratic revolution and establish a consolidated coalition with the peasants, served as a sort of certificate guaranteeing victory in the democratic revolution. Later, in the May 30th Movement, though the working class was isolated because of the painful experiences of destabilization and compromises of the national bourgeoisie, it proved that the peasant struggle was an indispensable part of the success of the national revolution and that peasants were the most reliable coalition force for the working class.
The May 30th Movement enabled many Party members to further understand the role the peasants would play in the democratic revolution and the importance of establishing a worker-peasant alliance. In October 1925, the expanded meeting of the Executive Committee of the CPC proposed that the Party's program once it was in power should include the settling of the peasant's land, holding that "the Communist Party of China should make the larger body of democrats aware that land acquisition is an inevitable policy and an important step in completing the 1911 Revolution." The meeting emphasized that the Party's "only hope for doing its part in history is to be united with the peasants.After examining the economic condition of Chinese peasants, Li Dazhao said, "If Chinas vast peasant masses can organize and join the national revolution, the success of the revolution is not far offM Chen Duxiu emphatically stated that Chinese workers should not only expand and consolidate to form a united front within their own class, but that there was also an urgent need for the establishment and harmony of the Workers and Peasants League. Only in this way could a preliminary victory in the political and economic struggle be obtained for the working class.
Beginning in 1925, Mao Zedong took the lead in guiding the peasant movement, making peasant issues his focus. Following "An Analysis of All Classes of Chinese Society," he published an article entitled "An Analysis of the Chinese Peasantry in Various Classes and their Attitude Toward the Revolution" in the January 1926 issue of The Chinese Peasant. This was the first use of Marxist class analysis in which rural residents were divided into landlords, small land owners, self-employed farmers, semi-self-employed farmers, semi-dependent farmers, poor peasants, farm laborers, and rural handicraftsmen. A more in-depth analysis of the attitudes of these groups' attitudes toward the revolution was made, and on this basis an initial theory of class attitudes in rural areas was formulated. This provided the Party with a more accurate understanding of the peasant class and the status and role of the peasantry within the revolution, laying a solid foundation for the formulation of a policy for the peasant class.
In May 1926, Party leaders held the Guangdong Province Second Peasant Congress, issuing the Resolution on the Position of the Peasants Movement Within the National Revolution, which states, "The semi-colonial Chinese national revolution is a peasant revolution," and "peasant issues are central concerns in the national revolution. The success and progress of the Kuomintang is entirely dependent on the success and progress of the peasant movement. Making peasant issues a core concern of the national revolution demonstrated that the Party's position on the role of the peasant classes in the revolution was based on a deep understanding of the importance of the peasantry.
Before the Fourth National Congress, to varying degrees, the Party had engaged in discussions regarding the leadership of the proletariat. However, it was only at the Fourth National Congress that it was made clear that the proletariat must take leadership over the democratic revolution. However, they lacked any real means to realize the dictatorship of the proletariat amidst the competition for leadership between the proletariat and the bourgeoisie.
During the May 30th Movement, Chinas working class once again demon¬strated its full strength, while the bourgeoisie showed itself to be of two minds. These facts enabled the CPC to further recognize the importance of the leadership of the proletariat as an important asset. In summing up the experience of the May 30th Movement, Chen Duxiu pointed out that though the movement was a united national struggle of all classes, the real struggle with imperialism was actually taking place in workers' strikes in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Hankoujiujiang, Nanjing, Qingdao, Tianjin, and Jiaozuo. There was nowhere more solidarity than that seen in the working class. For this reason, though it would be an exaggeration to say that the Chinese workers were the only force in the revolution, they were undeniably an important, reliable force. Further, the bourgeoisie's attitude was one of hesitation and compromise, and they gained sufficient advantages from the imperialists and warlords. Liu Shaoqi noted that "the working class made the greatest sacrifice during the May 30th Anti-Imperialist Movement, and its advocates were the most radical, the most tenacious, and demonstrated great strength. Among all the various facts related to the struggle, one unmistakable point is that the working class has led the revolutionary movement."He continued, "The Chinese proletariat has always been oppressed by the imperialists and the warlords, and thus was fortified in its participation in the national revolution. The bourgeoisie, on the other hand, made compromises throughout their participation in the revolution, and thus could not see it through."" Qu Qiubai believed that the weaknesses and concessions the bourgeoisie made to the capitalists during the course of the strikes led to setbacks in the overall struggle, and that the compromises of the bourgeoisie and the cowardice of the petty bourgeoisie sufficed to prove once and for all the necessity of putting the leadership of the  
revolution into the hands of the proletariat.
Party members placed a heavy premium on the issue of the proletariat s struggle with the bourgeoisie, proposing the notion that this struggle could not be confined to questions of mass movements, but should also give attention to political issues. Deng Zhongxia explicitly stated, "We are engaged in a national revolution, which means we must gain political power." However, he added, "the fact that the power is not dropping from the sky into the workers' hands means that we must engage in political struggle to slowly siphon every drop of power to the proletariat." He particularly emphasized that "if we do not take power, the bourgeoisie is waiting to seize it," and it was only when the proletariat became increasingly politically established and influential that "we can prevent the bourgeoisie from compromising and softening the revolution, putting an end to its political independence," which "paved the way" for the establishment of the workers' government after the revolution." Zhou Enlai pointed out that "revolutionary leaders should be peasant soldiers and should serve as the great alliance of workers, peasants, and soldiers, who together will overthrow the imperialists."
Issued by the expanded meeting of the Executive Committee in July 1926, under the grim situation of the tightening of anti-communist rule by both old and new rightists, the Resolution on the Relationship between the Communist Party of China and the Kuomintang stated, "Our tactics in the national revolution must make it even more explicit that, on the one hand, the Party should more firmly manifest its political independence, establishing itself as a force among workers and peasants and obtaining political influence among the general revolutionary population, and on the other hand, organizing the tide of the petty bourgeoisie to gather in the Kuomintang and enriching its left wing to serve as an influence within the KMT on behalf of the proletariat and peasants in the revolution of the masses. In this way, the left wing of the KMT will become a powerful ally in the struggle, with great assets for the guidance of the class in the national movement. Only in this way can the proletariat achieve and maintain the leadership of the national revolution."^ These expositions demonstrate that, guided by factual education, the CPC had deepened its earlier understanding of the power of proletarian leadership, and from that understanding and their debate regarding the struggle for leadership between the proletariat and the bourgeoisie, had formulated a guiding principle for its relations with the KMT. 
Regarding the issue of armed struggle as the main force in the Chinese revolution, the Party made new progress at this juncture. Earlier, the CPC had criticized the KMT for its exclusive focus on military efforts, neglecting the work of mass movements. However, the Party committed the opposite error, focusing on mass struggle while neglecting military work. In the process of unifying the revolutionary base area in Guangdong, the Party had previously begun to pay attention to carrying out the work of military transport and intensifying propaganda efforts under the warlord forces in hope of promoting its message among those inclined toward revolution. In June 1925, in a speech on his way back to East China, Zhou Enlai referred to the army as a tool, saying, "Oppressors use this tool to oppress people," then going on to reason that "the oppressed class can likewise be used as a tool against their oppressors, overthrowing the oppressors." In terms of overthrowing the imperialists and warlords, he said, "the army is the vanguard of our theory."
The Party likewise quite early on recognized the importance of arming workers and peasants. After the beginning of the provincial strike in Hong Kong, the Party noted the important role played by the Workers' Picket Corps in the struggle to consolidate the revolutionary base areas in Guangdong and to consider it a vanguard of Chinas national anti-imperialist movement. In October 1925, the expanded meeting of the CPC Central Committee discussed the issue of arming the working class, proposing that the bold preparations for arming working class loyalists should be organized.
Regarding the importance of the armed struggle and the revolutionary army during the period of the of the national revolution, Qu Qiubai offered a systematic exposition in his article "The Question of Armed Struggle in the Chinese Revolution." He pointed out that the Chinese people had already fought through demonstrations, boycotts, and strikes. "However," he wrote, "since the May 4th Movement, the February 7th Movement, the May 30th Movement, the March 18th Movement, the Battle of Guangzhou, and up until today, the tide of revolution has been swirling. This sort of action is preparation for waging an immediate decisive battle, and the time for us to enter a deadly battle is near." He continued, "Especially during this period, revolutionary military action is the way. All other methods are preparation, either directly or indirectly, for the revolutionary war." Qu said, "An official armed force and a civilian armed force are both extremely necessary for Chinas national revolution," since grassroots insurrections had always been able to defeat even powerful enemies. He insisted on gathering and training the masses of workers, peasants, and the petty bourgeoisie to build a formal revolutionary army, saying, "The revolutionary masses are the main political body, while the revolutionary army is the main military body engaged tn revolutionary operations. This is the only hope civilians have for complete liberation." This was the first article in the history of the Party dedicated to the question of armed struggle. It not only played a key role in swaying public opinion in favor of the Northern Expedition, but was also a pioneering theoretical work for the Party's later explorations of the revolutionary path.
The items discussed above constituted the early basic thinking of the CPC in regard to the question of the Chinese revolution. The key conclusions drawn included the need for proletarian leadership of the peasants, petty bourgeoisie, and other classes in the revolution, and the struggle against the national bourgeoisie, the necessity of a democratic revolutionary struggle against imperialism and feudalism, and the overthrow of the warlord regime as a representative of the imperialists and the compradors, and the necessity of establishing joint leadership of the revolutionary classes in opposition to the reactionary rule of the landlord class. Further, it was determined that Chinas current conditions would not lead to successful revolution if the movement were led by the bourgeoisie and a dictatorship of the bourgeoisie were established. In this world where there was as yet no revolution, part of the purpose of the bourgeoisie revolution would be to prepare China for the socialist revolution. At that time, these ideas were proposed and explored by many prominent members of the CPC. Though they were rather imprecise and incomplete, and though various Party members held differing views, the CPC made great efforts to apply the valuable gains Marxism had thus far achieved to Chinas current national situation, and these efforts were of great significance to the formation of the later theory of the new democratic revolution.
3.	Disagreements in Revolutionary Practice and the Emergence of Erroneous Theories
The victory of the Northern Expedition and the vigorous development of the worker-peasant movement led to great changes, such as internal conflicts and struggles in the revolutionary camp and the intensification of political and military strife throughout the nation, especially in the South. It was at this time that the International Communists, the United Communists (Bolsheviks), and their representatives in China proposed a series of guidelines based on correct principles, offering much helpful guidance to the CPC. However, because they lacked vigilance in facing the danger of rebellion by Chiang Kai-shek and others, in their dealings with Chiang Kai-shek, Wang Jingwei, and Tang Sheng-chih, they opted for the wrong approach, which had a negative impact on the CPC Central Committee s decision-making. The most intense manifestation of this phenomenon was seen in the formation and development of Chen Duxius errors.
With the revolution expanding, the issue of a revolutionary regime had already come to the forefront of debate within the Party. Both rural and urban worker-peasant movements were deepening, promoting change in many county governments. In Hunan Province, some counties set up county affair conferences or joint meetings with public bodies. Attending these conferences and meetings were county peasant associations, county unions, and the representatives of other mass revolutionary organizations. Although they did not propose their own county magistrates, the former magistrates had no choice but to listen to the opinions of various mass organizations and actually form a situation in which mass organizations jointly held power. In Jiangxi Province, due to the support of the broad masses, in some counties, Party members served as county magistrates. At the provincial government level, Communist Party member Dong Biwu was part of the leadership of the Hubei provincial government, and Lin Zuhan and Li Fuchun were part of the Jiangxi Provincial Political Committee. Party members took part in the revolutionary regime, working alongside workers and peasants. This was a part of the new process initiated after the victory of the Northern Expedition.
Although the CPCs participation in the revolutionary regime had become a requirement for further development of the revolution, the central government s understanding of this issue lagged behind the actual development of the situation, leading to at least one error. In September 1926, the Central Government entrusted its representation at the Seventh Plenum of the Executive Committee of the Comintern to Tan Pingshan, who asked the Comintern whether the communists should join the government. However, before the Comintern could reply, the CPC Central Committee gave directions to the Party, severely criticizing and preventing CPC members from participating in the government and emphasizing that, during the period of national revolution, the CPC should establish its position as an opposition party and should always maintain its independence by expressing an opposition attitude.
The CPC Central Committee adopted the policy of maintaining its opposi¬tion party status. On the one hand, at that time, the mass movement was given primary position and held the mistaken idea that participating in the government was equivalent to fame and status hunting, which had a direct bearing on this policy. Influenced by this concept, the Central Committee proposed a severe ban on "opportunist officials" within the Party, ordering that those serving as county magistrates in Jiujiang and Yongxiu immediately resign, emphasizing that "from now on, our human resources are all to be used by the public and should not participate in government work."^ On the other hand, what was even more essential was that the entire Party, especially its main leader, Chen Duxiu, bad demonstrated a lack of understanding of how to make the transition from a democratic revolution to a socialist society. In July 1926, the Second Expanded Plenary Session of the Central Executive Committee stated in the Central Political Report that "building the capitalist nation" was the "future" of the national revolutionary movement." In September, in an article entitled "Why are We Fighting Now?", Chen Duxiu stated that the realization of this future would De a victory "attributed to the civil government and army," and that "it is only then hat capitalism truly distinctive to China can develop freely." The article plainly stated that during the period of national revolution, there would be no doubt of Communist government, and that "the time the Communist Party comes into jower will be the era of the proletarian revolution."
It was in late 1926 that the CPC Central Committee first realized the impor- ance of joining the government, leading it to decide that the Party "should strive to participate in provincial governments." The Comintern's Seventh Plenum of he Executive Committee made clear that Party members were to join the ranks of government agencies, a major step forward in the CPC's understanding of he importance, and even urgency, of Party members joining the government. In esponse, Party members such as Tan Pingshan and Su Zhaozheng each in turn began to serve in the national and local government. However, with the rapid leterioration of the situation, they did not actually play an important role in these bodies. 
Chen Duxiu, like most other leaders in the CPC, did not give sufficient attention to establishing an armed force. Before the beginning of the Northern Expedition, Party members, graduates of the Whampoa Military Academy, and members of the Communist Youth League totaled about 2,000 people. The majority of workers and peasants from Hunan, Hubei, and Jiangxi Provinces were easily defeated at the hand of the enemy, and they desperately needed guns and ammunition with which to arm themselves. Many officers in the National Revolutionary army sent invitations requesting people from the CPC to come and help with the work. However, Chen Duxiu was opposed to capitalizing on these favorable conditions to bring the revolutionary forces together directly under one umbrella. After the beginning of the Northern Expedition, the Central Committee decided to cut back on the number of people it was sending to study at the Whampoa Military Academy, saying that comrades in the peasant movement "must not be allowed to abandon their work to study" in military academies. The central government also demanded that members of the CPC and Communist Youth League who engaged in political work in the National Army should "just pay attention to political propaganda, but not interfere in military administration."^ For this reason, the Northern Expedition not only failed to establish more formal armed forces directly under CPC control, but also did nothing to consolidate and develop what could have been a considerable force of armed workers and peasants.
With the progress of the Northern Expedition, dangerous tendencies in the united front of the national revolution became increasingly apparent. In the face of a difficult set of changing circumstances, the main challenges before the CPC were, on the one hand, the need to overthrow the warlords in the north and, on the other, to address the conflicts within the revolutionary camp. Deciding how to address this was a complex question, with a variety of internal and external conflicts. The problem of how to respond to betrayal by allies and to sudden attacks had become an urgent problem to be addressed. To the still inexperienced Party, this was indeed a huge problem.
In an effort to analyze the various dangerous tendencies surfacing in the joint front of the national revolution, the Central Committee held a special meeting in Hankou in December 1926. Comintern representatives Grigori Voitinsky, Mikhail Borodin, and others attended the meeting, where Chen Duxiu pointed  out in his political report that since he had won a victory on the battlefield in Jiangxi Province, many changes had taken place in the relationship between the CPC and the KMT, with many dangerous tendencies emerging, threatening to rupture the united front at any time. The report analyzed the source of these dangerous tendencies and admitted that the KMT was right-leaning and that, despite Chiang Kai-sheks occasional leftist remarks, his actions were in fact right¬leaning beyond the extent that was deemed acceptable: No effective solutions to the problem were offered, only criticism of all the so-called leftists within the Party and an endorsement of the Kuomintang. In arranging the peoples movement, he ignored the existence of the left, misunderstood the independence of the Party, initiated poor policy regarding the petty bourgeoisie, and so on. According to the report, at that time, "the most serious tendency was that, on the one hand, the peoples movement had gradually shifted left and, on the other, that the military regime, which was moving right, fears the building of the people s movement." These "left" and "right" movements moved steadily apart, constituting "the very reason for the break of the general united front. This statement exaggerated some radical actions in the worker-peasant movement as major threats, going so fir as to call the correct approach "left-leaning." At the same time, it masked the fundamental problem, which was that the new right was then poised to betray the revolution, reversing the importance of these two issues. The report proposed as its central idea seven measures for avoiding the crisis, "preventing the rightist from taking over the Party, while also opposing left-leaning factions within the Party," clearly reflecting an erroneous understanding of the situation.
The Resolution on the Issue of a Leftist Faction within the Party stipulated that it should assist the leftists in the Kuomintang in every aspect, turning them into a powerful political force that could struggle against the reactionary tendencies of the rightist forces. The Resolution held that although the leftist wing of the KMT was weak, the CPC should still unite with and support it. This was essentially pinning all hopes of fighting against the rightist KMT on the leftist faction within it. Chen Duxiu and others also regarded some officers and politicians who had expressed leftist sentiments as reliable left-wing members of the Nationalist Party, particularly Wang Ching-wei, and thus placed too high hopes on the KMT. They not only sought to enable them to gain power within the KMT, but also gave them power within the general mass movements that had always been under the guidance and leadership of the CPC, This not only led to serious consequences at the critical moment, but was also a sudden reversal of the current situation.
The policy proposed at this meeting to avert the crisis was not only based on efforts to consolidate it on the basis of strengthening the CPC's own power, but also failed to make proper mental and practical preparations for the various incidents at the time, instead placing their hope entirely in Wang Ching-wei and other KMT military generals, under the illusion that such concessions would bring unity. Objectively speaking, there were two consequences of this policy. The first was that it made it possible for Chiang Kai-shek, who was already sharpening his sword, to set his heart on spreading his own dangerous ideas among the masses, turning them from left to right, while the relatively weak, volatile, suspicious Wang Ching-wei formed a strong leftist faction that was to assume the important task of completing the national revolution. The second consequence was that it poured cold water on the rapid development of the revolutionary workers and peasant movement then in full swing, clamping down on the enthusiasm of the masses and suppressing the mass movement. In essence, this policy sacrificed the basic interests of the workers, peasants, and masses, shifting the leadership of the KMT neatly into the hands of its right-wing under Chiang Kai-shek and Wang Ching-wei.
The special meeting at Hankou did not address the imminent danger facing the Party, nor the vitally important question of how the CPC might survive and fight in this struggle. Instead, it pointed the Party in the wrong direction, creating an opportunity for the gradual development of the errors of the right wing. The decisions of the meeting were received and approved by the Politburo of the CPC and the Comintern representatives. It was an important subjective factor that led to the failure of the Great Revolution. 
II
Various  Twists in the Process of Exploring the Basis Issues of the Agrarian Revolutionary War in the Early Stages of the Chinese Revolution 
i. A Major Step Forward in Understanding the Basic Issues of the Chinese Revolution
After the failure of the Great Revolution, the domestic political situation underwent a tremendous reversal, with counter-revolutionary forces beginning to outnumber Communist-led revolutionary forces by a large margin. The peak of the nationwide revolution came to an end, and there was a downturn in the revolutionary situation.
The failure of the Great Revolution demonstrated to the Party leadership and the united front that armed struggle was the foundation of the revolution. It was only by settling this question and correctly understanding and resolving these issues that the promotion and development of the revolutionary cause would finally be successful. This harsh fact came as a profound teaching for the CPC.
In an effort to review and rectify the serious mistakes the Party had made in the later stages of the Great Revolution and decide on a new approach and new policies, on August 7, 1927, the CPC Central Committee held an emergency meeting in Hankou, Hubei Province (known as the August 7th Meeting), during which Comintern representative Lominadze s past mistakes were examined and a new approach was forged, with new conclusions drawn. On behalf of the Central Standing Committee,  Qu Qiubai issued a report detailing the future of the Partys work. Many Party members spoke out, criticizing the central government for the right-leaning mistakes they made in dealing with issues related to the KMT, peasant land rights, and armed struggle. Some members of the CPC likewise criticized the errors made by the Soviet consultants and representatives of the Comintern.
The August 7th Meeting passed the Report of the CPC Central Committee Executive Party Members and Other Documents, demanding that resolute measures be taken to correct the Party's past mistakes and urging the majority of Party members and the revolutionary masses to continue fighting. The meeting 
criticized the erroneous opportunism of the rightists and other mistakes made by the Central Committee under Chen Duxiu's leadership in the late stages of the Great Revolution, while also pointing out other periods in which errors were made, such as i) the issue of the relationship between the Central Committee and the KMT, in which the Central Committee completely renounced the political independence of the CPC and implemented a policy of compromise and concession, 2) the question of revolutionary armed forces, in which the Central Committee never considered the need to arm workers and peasants, not even contemplating the idea that it would be workers and peasant forces that would lead to a true revolution, and instead going so far as to voluntarily order the dissolution of the workers'picket lines, 3) the Central Committee's lack of active support and leadership in the peasant movement, hesitating because they were intimidated by KMT leaders, which prevented them from proposing a revolutionary platform of actions to address the land issue, and 4) the Central Committee's inability to supervise the masses, which led to a lack of democratic life within the Party. This report made clear to all Party members that "the Party's public acknowledgment of its errors is not a sign of weakness, but is made to correct its mistakes and eliminate them, which to the contrary, demonstrates the great strength of the Chinese communist movement."
The August 7th Meeting summed up the lessons learned from the failure of the Great Revolution, discussed the Party's tasks, and established the approach to be taken in implementing the peasant revolution and armed uprising.
With regard to the peasant revolution, in the spirit of the instructions issued by the Comintern and the Central Committee of the CPC on July 20, 1927, in the document The New Stage of the Chinese Revolution: A Peasant Revolution, which clearly stated that the peasant revolution was a central issue in China's bourgeois democratic revolution and that the new phase would mainly be one of socio-economic reform, the meeting pointed out that it was essential to use "civil means" of revolution to address the land problem, confiscating the landlords'land, all so-called public ancestral shrines, and other land for production, redistributing it to tenants or landless peasants. For small landowners, rent would be reduced. The decision made at this meeting answered the key issue now facing the Chinese revolution. In China, the construction of a land system had been an important foundation for the reactionary rule of the forces of imperialism and feudal compradors. The issue of land was always fundamental to the revolution. After the Runding of the CPC, though it had been noted that solving the issue of the 's land was of central concern, and in some areas rent had even been reduced, the problem had yet to be addressed. After the failure of the Great Revolution, the CPC had to independently abolish feudalism if it were to lead the revolutionary struggle against the landowners and implement a system in which "farmers own the land." It was only with the support and participation of the vast majority of peasants that armed struggle could be carried out and a revolutionary regime established with an extensive, reliable base. For this reason, the implementation of the peasant revolution not only reflected the roots of the Chinese revolution, but was in fact a requirement uniquely adapted to the needs of the actual struggle.
Regarding the question of armed uprising, the meeting made it clear that, given the situation, the Party's most important task was to systematically push as far as possible into the vast hinterland for a total insurrection of the peasants. The meeting considered poor peasants the main force of the peasant movement, and so decided to deploy the most active, strongest, and most experienced Party members to the major provinces and autonomous regions to mobilize and lead the peasant insurrection, organizing the worker-peasant revolutionary army and establishing the worker-peasant revolutionary regime to address the issue of the peasants' land. The meeting emphasized that the workers' movement and armed peasant insurrection must have close mutual ties, that attention must be paid to military training such as street warfare among workers, and that their riots must be prepared to respond immediately to the rural peasant uprisings. The working class had to be prepared to lead and participate in armed insurrection. The position of undertaking armed opposition and opposing the policy of the massacre of KMT reactionaries, as was adopted at the meeting, was the correct one, and it was a conclusion reached by the Party only after sacrifices had been made. These conclusions marked significant progress in the CPC's understanding of the Chinese revolution.
The meeting passed the Resolution on the Party's Organizational Issues, which was proposed before the Sixth General National Assembly and implemented by all the powers of the Central Committee under the Politburo. Given that covert close efforts would become the Party's main form of work in KMT-controlled areas, the resolution proposed that organization should be the main task at that time, and it should undertake the creation of a staunch, capable covert organ, and Party organizations at all levels should contribute to the covert efforts to build a strong Party. At the same time, it was important to pay attention to making full use of all possibilities that opened up, so as to expand the Party's influence.
At the conclusion of the August 7th Meeting, with the lessons learned from the mistakes made in the later part of the Great Revolution, it was determined that one important cause of these errors was that the leadership body of the Party was largely made up of intellectuals and members of the petty bourgeoisie. For this reason, it was noted that it was necessary to promote comrades who were workers to positions of greater responsibility. Influenced by this understanding, shortly after this meeting, the Central Committee Circular (No. 2) stated that the composition of the Party's leading organ should be based on work and that workers and peasants who performed well in the struggle were responsible for guiding the Party organs at all levels. Party members needed the workers and peasants, and thus needed to quickly absorb them into the Party in great numbers. This improper emphasis on leadership organs and the guiding ideology of the simple composition of workers and peasants in the Party was a departure from the actual conditions both in China and in the Party, which had a negative impact on Party-building. In particular, this "leftist" error came at a time of the Central Committee's dominance within the Party, repeatedly emphasizing "family background as the only yardstick," which seriously hindered the healthy development of the Party's organizations.
In his speech at the meeting, Mao Zedong not only criticized Chen Duxiu's rightist errors, but also proposed two very serious questions. One was related to the issue of military struggle. Mao criticized the Party for past mistakes, saying it "was not specializing in military campaigns, but in populist movements." He proposed "the need to pay greater attention to the military and to be aware that regimes are acquired through the use of guns."This assertion was taken from the lesson of the failed Great Revolution, which affirmed that the question of the role of military struggle in China's revolution was a weighty issue of central concern. The second question raised by Mao related to the peasants'land. He proposed that the standards for large- and medium-sized plots, suggesting 50 mu as the limit, and that land in excess of 50 mu would be confiscated, regardless of whether it were fat or lean land. The question of small landowners was central to the issue of land titles, and if the property of small landowners was not confiscated, "there will be many places without landlords, and the farmers will simply stop working. Therefore, it is necessary to abolish the landlord system entirely and a definite solution to the small landowner issue must be put in place. The main, concern is always the security of the peopled^ Autonomous farmers in rich and middle class peasant families had different land rights, so if the peasants attacked wealthy farmers, it would set a proper direction for the revolution. This proposal was suited to Hunan, Hubei, Jiangxi, and Guangdong Provinces, where the possession of land would lay a solid foundation for carrying out the peasant revolution in the future, forming a correct course and an accurate understanding as a foundation for the peasant revolution. However, the Comintern representatives did not adopt Mao's correct opinion, but counter-proposed that the fundamental solution to the problem of land expropriation was the state ownership of land.
Held amidst a serious crisis in the Chinese revolution, the August 7th Meeting was timely, and the guidelines formulated at the meeting were the correct path for continuing the revolutionary struggle, had the entire Party not been alarmed by the looming White Terror. The panic generated in the face of the White Terror re-ignited the courage of the Party to fight the KMT reactionaries and save the Party and the revolution. From that time on, the Chinese revolution began the peasant revolution, forged from the failure of the Great Revolution, marking a great change in the direction of the revolutionary effort.
However, because of the "leftist" thinking of the Comintern and its representatives, coupled with the leftist sentiment within the CPC itself the August 7th Meeting failed to give attention to preventing and correcting leftist errors while opposing rightist mistakes. The lack of understanding, tolerance, and encouragement for the Party to organize amidst the low ebb of revolutionary activity led some to blindly mobilize workers to strike or even organize urban riots. Chen Duxiu did not notice this tendency at the meeting, instead wrongly accusing leaders of not focusing on the ideological or theoretical lessons extracted from previous mistakes, as outlined in the summary of the meeting. The meeting also inappropriately emphasized the simplistic composition of the workers as leaders for the Party organs and the main body of the Party's membership. The meeting objected to the idea that the completion of the bourgeoisie-democratic revolution (which included the peasant revolution), and especially the completion of the anti-imperialist revolution, was dependent on the realization of the bourgeoisie struggle. This understanding provided the theoretical basis for the future development of leftist errors, according to the report, bringing great harm to the Chinese revolution. 
After the August 7th Meeting, many armed uprisings were carried out in succession. What sort of government was to be established after an armed uprising? The question of the nature of the post-revolution regime became an urgent issue for the Central Committee. The Proposal on the Coming Peasant Struggle and Resolution on the Coming Workers Movement passed at the August 7th Meeting proposed the slogan "the village government belongs to the Peasant People s Association" and the realization of the goal of a "worker-peasant dictatorship."On August 9, in a directive to the Hunan Provincial Committee, the Central Provisional Politburo stated clearly that a revolutionary political power should be set up in order to establish the democratic dictatorship of workers and peasants. Specifically, all power in the village should be held by the peasant associations, while in the city, power should rest solely with the revolutionary committee. It declared that, once the victory of the revolutionary committee was proposed, the representatives of the trade unions, peasant associations, and revolutionary small businessmen should be called for elections and establish a formal "civil government." In regards to when such a "civil government" could be organized, the letter fixed the time as the period after local revolutionary committees had consolidated power.
At this time, though the Central Committee had set forth the principle of establishing a worker-peasant democratic government, it still proposed to organize workers and peasant riots under the banner of the left wing of the Kuomintang. The Central Committee believed that the KMT was a special flag of the movement that would provide a national solution, and that if the Communists joined the KMT, they could move the KMT's left wing to its center. The actions and propaganda of grassroots organizations and Party members made the KMT a small asset in the city among the masses, even making them part of the mass workers' movement, with some revolutionary prestige already coming to be associated with the KMT. The Communist Party was not yet ready to lose this flag. At the same time, organizing a riot under the banner of the KMT could attract some small assets to the revolutionary classes. For this reason, the slogan of organizing for the soviets was not proposed at this time.
More than a month later, on September 19, the meeting of the Central Provi¬sional Politburo passed the resolution, but under the changing circumstances, the resolution abandoned the banner of "the left wing of the KMT" and put forward the propaganda slogan of setting up the soviet (i.e. representative meeting)

2. The Nature of China's Revolution and Proposal of its Revolutionary Path
With the failure of the national revolution and the commencement of the peasant revolution, even as the Communist Party of China attempted to sum up the failure of the revolution, they also sought to re-examine and further explore numerous issues concerning the Chinese revolution, including the nature of society, the nature of revolution, revolutionary motives and class relations, the content and main methods central to the revolution, the revolutionary regime, the future of the revolution, and the revolutionary path. This inevitable undertaking had to be carried out after the revolutionary upsurge had passed. The crux of these issues was the nature of revolution and the revolutionary path.
The nature of society. To understand the nature of Chinas semi-colonial, semi- feudal society was to understand all the basic issues of the Chinese revolution. Among Chinas Communists and early Marxists, the first to use the phrase "semi¬colonial" to describe Chinas social situation was Cai Hesen. In his September 1922 article, "Unification, Lending, and the Kuomintang," he pointed out that "Chinas international status is already semi-colonial."^ In November 1922, the Fourth Congress of the Comintern reiterated that China was "a semi-colonial country," after which concepts such as "semi-colonial China," "semi-colonial society," and "semi-colonial Chinese society" began to appear widely in a range of Chinese Communist documents and Marxist theoretical works. Among Chinese Communists and early Marxists, Cai Hesen was likewise the first to use the phrase "semi-feudal." In September 1922, he wrote in his article "The United Front and the SelLGoverning United Provinces: A Consideration of Politics and Warlords" that China was "semi-feudal and semi-democratic." By September 1924, Cai had already introduced this formulation in his article "Anatomy of Freedom in the Anti-Revolutionary Movement," but had not specifically demonstrated, defined, or explained it. The "semi-feudal" nature of China s economy and Chinese society was the topic at the Sixth National Congress of the CPC. The Sixth National Congress passed the Resolution on Land Issues, which states unequivocally, "The characteristics of Chinas economy are based on land relations, and it is clearly a semi-feudal system." It goes on, "The current economic and political system in China should indeed be regulated as a semi-feudal system." On the basis of this clear understanding of the two aspects of China as a "semi-colonial," "semi-feudal" society, in February 1929, the CPC Central Committee issued Circular No. 28 of the Central Committee: A Strategy for Peasant Movements, marking the first wholesale use of the concepts "semi-colonial" and "semi-feudal" in official writings. The document stated, "According to precious experience gained through its study conducted over several years of economic relations and the peasantry in Chinas semi-colonial, semi-feudal society, the Sixth National Congress of the CPC has pointed out that the main idea of the peasant movement is to strive to build a united front among the anti-landlord class among peasants in rural areas, consolidating leadership and protecting the proletariat in the peasants' revolutionary struggle and, through the victory of the peasant revolution, to turn the future toward socialism."^ Although the Sixth National Congress of the CPC demonstrated a definite understanding of the semi-colonial, semi-feudal nature of Chinese society, these concepts were still not completely formulated, so it was in Circular No. 28, issued at the Sixth National Congress, that the concepts first explicitly came into official use, being the first time the terms were used in a CPC document. For the purpose of this volume, it is sufficient to say that the terms were seldom used in any documents before this, and that the concepts of "semi-colonial" and "semi-feudal" had been proposed at various times with different connotations. After the beginning of the Great War in the 1930s, there was much debate about the nature of China's semi-colonial, semi-feudal society, with many different views proposed. After the controversy, the first to recall the formulation of a "semi-colonial, semi-feudal Chinese society" were Su Hua and Zhang Wentian. In September 1933, in his article entitled "The Development of the Chinese Capitalist Economy," Su Hua pointed out that at the time, Chinese society was "a semi-colonial, semi-feudal society."^ This expression focused on "semi-feudal," with "semi-colonial" used to modify the phrase "struggle to build society." In January 1934, in his article "The Socio-Economic Basis for the Chinese Revolution," Zhang Wentian laid hold of the basic issue of China's land relations, persuasively concluding that the economic nature of Chinese society was "a semi-colonial, semi-feudal economy." At one point, he stated, "This economy determines the tasks and nature of the Chinese revolution and determines its progress in the relations between various classes, which is the impetus behind the Chinese revolution."^ After this, in June 1934, in his article 'A Study of the Early History of Chinese Society," Lu Zhenyu likewise clearly concluded that after the Opium War, Chinese society was "semi-colonial and semi-feudal." The above discussion offers a clear view of the CPC's thinking concerning Chinese society at that time. By the first half of the 1930s, after a lengthy debate regarding the nature of Chinese society, the understanding of China's semi-colonial, semi- feudal society was furthered and gradually solidified. By December 1936, Mao Zedong had begun to use the concept of "semi-colonial, semi-feudal." In his article "Strategies for China's Revolutionary Struggle," he wrote, "We are now at war. It is a revolutionary war, and our revolutionary war takes place in semi¬colonial, semi-feudal China."This statement demonstrated Mao's agreement with leading Marxist theorists of the time.
The nature of the revolution. On August 1, 1927, in a speech entitled "China," delivered at a joint conference of the Central Committee of the Soviet Communist Party and the Soviet Central Commission, Stalin stated that there were three stages in the Chinese revolution. "The first stage was the revolution of the united front of the entire nation. This was the Guangzhou era, when the main revolutionary goal was to combat foreign imperialism, and with the national bourgeoisie's support of the revolutionary movement. The second phase came after the democratic class revolution. In this phase, after KMT forces reached the Yangtze River, the national bourgeoisie quit the revolution, but the land movement developed into a powerful revolution for millions of peasants. Today, China remains in the second phase of the revolution. The third stage of the soviet revolution has not yet come, but it is coming." On February 23, 1928, the Comintern Executive Committee issued the Resolution on Issue Concerning China, which clearly stated that "the current stage of the Chinese revolution is the stage of a bourgeoisie civil rights revolution."
The CPC's August 7th Meeting determined, "The Chinese revolution is still a bourgeoisie civil rights revolution, the socio-economic civil rights revolution, and the socio-economic and political legacy of the repressive imperial and feudal system."28 The CPC Central Committee Politburo Circular on Resolutions by the Comintern, issued on April 30,1928, stated, "The Central Committee Politburo has always clearly understood that the Chinese revolution is a bourgeoisie civil rights revolution." At the Sixth National Congress, the CPC pointed out more clearly that "the current stage of the Chinese revolution is the stage of a bourgeois civil rights revolution." Because "the current goal of the revolution" was to "expel the imperialist and complete the institution of a truly Chinese system and to complete the civilian overthrow of the private land ownership system of the landlord class, the revolution is the ground on which all semi-feudal ties among local institutions will be completely destroyed." In an article written by Mao Zedong, Cai Hesen, Qu Qiubai, Li Lisan, and many other Party members, it was frequently made clear that "the present stage of the Chinese revolution is a part of the bourgeois civil rights revolution." Party members, understanding that the Chinese revolution was still under the umbrella of the bourgeois democratic revolution, pointed out the "uniqueness" of the bourgeois democratic revolution in China. First, in China s bourgeois democratic revolution, it was urgent not just to oppose imperialism and feudalism, but also to oppose the national bourgeoisie. The political resolution of the Sixth National Congress stated, "Chinas current bourgeois civil rights revolution must oppose the victory of the national bourgeoisie because the bourgeoisie is an obstacle to the victory of the revolution, and in fact, one of its most dangerous enemies."The resolutions on the political issues of the Sixth Assembly of the Comintern likewise pointed out that "with the expansion of the mobilization of the masses and the intensification of the peasant revolution, the national bourgeoisie has gradually become anti-revolutionary. For this reason, Chinas anti-imperialist struggle cannot be separated from its opposition to the national bourgeois revolution."
The Party believed that "the land ownership of Chinas national bourgeoisie and feudal landlord class are linked together, heart and soul, even as they shamelessly surrender to imperialism." Further, although "the bourgeoisie is engaged in an economic and anti-imperialist struggle, its strength is fundamentally at odds with the interests of the majority of Chinese workers and peasants."^ It went on to say that "the Chinese bourgeoisie is driven by imperialist economic aggression, and it cannot resist imperialism while also enriching the imperialists. It is only able to make compensation by further aggravating the exploitation of the Chinese worker and peasant." For this reason, it was necessary for the Chinese revolution to oppose the national bourgeoisie. For a long time after the failure of the Great Revolution, the CPC proceeded from the class standpoint, harboring hatred for the national bourgeoisie, who had rebelled against the revolution and rooted it in the political attitude of the national bourgeoisie and hostility toward the Communist-led peasant revolution, which was a rallying call for the national bourgeoisie. However, most Party members still understood that "opposing the bourgeoisie is not because the national bourgeoisie espoused capitalist ideology, but because it has become a tool of imperialism and an ally of the landlord class, betraying the revolution in favor of a counterrevolutionary leader opposed to the civil rights revolution. Thus, if the new task does not go beyond the nature of the bourgeois civil rights revolution and destroy capitalist methods of production, it will on the contrary, become a starting point for the development of capitalism."
A second unique feature of Chinas bourgeoisie democratic revolution was that it was a part of a worldwide movement of proletarian socialist revolutions. Cai Hesen pointed out that Chinas bourgeois democratic revolution "opposes international imperialism, and it is just one part contributing to the larger worldwide revolution." The Sixth Assembly of the Comintern believed that "Chinas revolution is of tremendous worldwide significance."The Sixth National Congress of the CPC pointed out that the Chinese bourgeois democratic revolution was "opposed to imperialism diminishing its power and the Soviet Union and the working class revolts in all countries are helping to reduce imperialist oppression of the proletariat around the world, for the sake of a revolutionary future." It further stated that "it is a help and a major component of the worldwide socialist revolution." 
A third unique aspect of the Chinese bourgeois democratic revolution was that it had to be led by the proletariat and jointly dominated by peasants from the general public. The Notes from the August yth Meeting of the CPC pointed out that "based on objective conditions, Chinas working class is the strongest, most thorough, and most uncompromising force striving for the liberation of China. Such circumstances enable the Chinese proletariat to assume leadership of the national liberation movement." In his article "Why is Chinas Red Regime Able to Exist?", Mao Zedong wrote, "China urgently needs a bourgeois democratic revolution, and this revolution must be completed under the leadership of the proletariat." Qu Qiubai added, "The development of the Chinese revolution must be led by the peasant soldiers of the proletariat, based on class, leading the masses in a revolution to overthrow the landlord bourgeoisie of the gentry class and the bourgeoisie of international imperialism."^ Cai Hesen emphasized that Chinas bourgeois class had betrayed the revolution, even turning its back on the key concept of "the dictatorship of the proletariat," which was "the core issue of the Chinese revolution." He added, "Victory can only be achieved with a united peasantry."
The fourth unique aspect of Chinas bourgeois democratic revolution was its non-capitalist future. In February 1927, the Resolution of the Seventh Meeting of the Executive Committee of the Comintern noted that the development of the Chinese revolution would lead to a non-capitalist (i.e., a socialist) future. The Sixth National Congress of the CPC similarly noted this same point. Some Party members pointed out that "the uniqueness of the Chinese bourgeois civil rights revolution lies in the fact that its victory will mark the early development of socialism." Why was it necessary for Chinas democratic revolution to be non- capitalist? Party members addressed this question from different perspectives. "The driving force behind the Chinese revolution has only been among the proletariat and peasantry, and with the leadership of the proletariat at the bourgeois stage of the democratic revolution, it has been established amid the democratic revolution (since the proletariat can help and guide farmers to implement the peasant revolution and provide leadership in the anti-imperialist struggle). This can open the way for the future development of the Chinese revolution so that it will lead to a non-capitalist future, which is to say, a socialist future. World capitalism is now fearful, and in this period of panic and the dictatorship of the proletariat, ten years have passed since the establishment of socialism in the Soviet Union, and political and economic power are growing there, which is sufficient to help the Chinese proletariat in its revolutionary struggle to bring about the future of socialism and guarantee the possibility of victory." Further, "Chinas industrial and agricultural crisis is a necessary transitional economic stage in the approach to socialism," and because the Soviet government had no foreign capital, "it confiscated the land of all the major enterprises to organize and direct the country's new economic life." Further, because "agricultural productivity is weak, when the peasant revolution is completely victorious and the development of capitalism begins, it must inevitably encounter other great obstacles, including imperialism and the domestic rectification of the landlord class, the bourgeoisie, and wealthy peasants." To overcome these obstacles, the only choice for peasants (except wealthy peasants) was to "prepare for the transition to the conditions suited to the socialist revolution, that is, eliminating the capitalist market economy and replacing the rate of large-scale organized state-owned industries under the rural collective economy. By the time such a change is complete, it is no longer the development of capitalism but a preliminary step toward the construction of socialism." The consensus among most Party members was that the future of China's bourgeoisie democratic revolution was non-capitalist. However, there were serious differences between the timing of Chinas bourgeoisie democratic revolution and the socialist revolution. The Party was clearly aware of this, and so opted to take a detour. The CPC Central Committee Politburo held an expanded meeting in November 1927 in which it determined that the Chinese revolution was "a continuous revolution," and that "it is inevitable that we must completely settle the task of democratization and make a sharp turn to head straight into socialism."^ Qu Qiubai said that this sort of "continuous revolution cannot help but surpass bourgeoisie populism."^ He even believed that "the current stage of the Chinese revolution has grown into a socialist revolution." The Comintern, the Sixth National Congress of the CPC, and some Party members criticized this view, pointing out that "only when the civil rights revolution has been completely victorious can we begin the transformation to the socialist revolution."They noted that the Party absolutely "cannot skip the stage of the civil rights revolution." At the same time, it was emphasized that "the end of the civil rights revolution is the beginning of the socialist revolution." It would not be possible to find a path of capitalist development midway betweenthe two.
After the August 7th Meeting, the CPC led the uprising, carried out armed struggle, and achieved a change in the type of struggle employed. However, the CPC failed to note the downturn in the revolutionary situation, instead erroneously estimating the situation and disregarding both subjective and objective conditions and blindly demanding that some areas be armed. The result was a gradual increase in "leftist" sentiments within the Party.
3.	The Circuitous Exploration of the Basic Issues of the Chinese Revolution
For a long time after 1927, many Party members still took preparations for an urban uprising and work in white areas as the Party's central task. Leftist mistakes were repeatedly committed in connection with this issue. The historical lesson learned from their mistakes was that they had not proceeded based on the realities of the Chinese revolution and had failed to research and investigate China's historical and social conditions. Situated in the big cities, they were stiflingly dogmatic. Having some experience in overseas studies, they had some one-dimensional knowledge, but in the end, they were unable to fit their theory with Chinese wisdom and apply it to the specific circumstances, leading them to underestimate the military struggle, especially peasant guerrilla warfare and the rural roots of the revolution. The theory of attacking "the countryside around the city" was the so-called "peasant awareness of local ideas and conservative concepts," harboring dreams that urban workers' struggles and other mass struggles would suddenly break through the enemy's line with great force. This hope led them to consistently mobilize armed uprisings in areas surrounding the cities, imagining that the city at the center would lead to what was called the first provincial victory to form the so-called height of national revolution and lead to victory across the entire country. Urban workers were always at the center of everything in such dreams.
This leftist error was a blind repetition of the experiences of the Russian Revolution. Under the guidance of the erroneous leftist theory of the Comintern, from November 9 to November 19,1927, the CPC Central Committee held an Expanded Meeting of the Provisional Politburo in Shanghai. The meeting was presided over by Qu Qiubai and attended by representatives of the Comintern. The meeting adopted a resolution entitled "The Current Situation in China and the Task of the Party," drafted by Lominadze and addressing questions related to political organization, political discipline, and other similar issues. On the one hand, the resolution correctly called for all revolutionary forces to be made Communists under Communist leadership, resolutely opposing imperialism and overthrowing the KMT's reactionary rule, resolutely leading peasant uprisings and implementing rural separatism, confiscating the land of the landlord class for farmers to cultivate, and organizing the workers and peasant revolutionary army for guerrilla warfare. On the other hand, they also considered the Chinese revolution as a "continuous revolution" and held that "the current revolutionary struggle is going to have to go beyond the scope of populism if it is to progress." Further, it was inevitable that as the issue of democratization was completely settled, it would rapidly go along the path to socialism. In this way, the boundary between the democratic revolution and the socialist revolution was confused.
The meeting accepted Lominadze's leftist point of view, that Chiang Kai- shek's mutiny was the treason of the entire national bourgeoisie, while Wang Ching-wei's mutiny was the treason of the petty bourgeoisie. The meeting did not admit that the revolutionary situation was at an ebb, thinking rather that the new KMT warlords were already on the brink of collapse and the current situation in China was a direct revolutionary situation. The meeting set the general strategy for the implementation of the national armed insurrection and demanded that rural riots be carried out in the same way as urban riots, combining with the urban struggles as the "center and director so as to form a complete urban and rural insurrection until victory in one or several provinces resulted in revolutionary conditions. The meeting also provided a series of overly leftist policies, such as those advocating the confiscation of large capitalists at home and abroad, and when demanding "control for the factory workers," they demanded that "extremist and heroic counterrevolutionaries should be killed without pity and with extreme severity" during the peasant uprisings."
According to Lominadze's proposal, there were no armed insurrections after the August 7th Meeting, nor was any specific analysis made of the situation. Instead, one-sided accusations were made, suggesting that the leaders of the uprising "hesitated to take action" and, contrary to the Central Committee's policy, committed "opportunistic" errors. For this reason, disciplinary action was taken against the leaders of the Nanchang Uprising and activities along the borders of Hunan and Jiangxi Provinces, including upright leaders such as Zhou Enlai, Tan Pingshan, Mao Zedong, and Peng Gongda, along with the relevant provincial committees. The expanded meeting of the CPC National Congress affirmed the Party's organizational process after the August 7th Meeting, while also embodying the guiding ideology of the Party's organs in the process of making Party membership more representative of workers and peasants. The Resolution on the Important Task of the Recent Organizational Matters adopted at the meeting held that one of the major organizational weaknesses of the Party was that its leading cadres were not even workers or poor peasants, but petty bourgeoisie intellectuals, and pointed out that this gave rise to opportunism within the Party. To this end, the motion proposed that the Party's most important organizational task was to replace non-proletarian knowledge with new cadres of workers and peasants, and that the cadres of the armed forces taken from the proletariat and the poor should make up the largest proportion of the Party's leading cadres. The meeting suggested requiring the Party's guiding organ to be completely rehabilitated before the Sixth National Congress of the Communist Party of China was held.
From mid-November to mid-December, the spirit of the expanded meeting of the Central Committee Politburo began to be implemented everywhere. Some areas forcefully pushed workers' strikes, peasant uprisings, and indiscriminate killing and burning, putting the Party at some distance from the masses in those places. Only a handful of armed uprisings in rural areas were victorious, with the majority of such efforts either failing or faltering altogether before they even got off the ground. In Wuhan, Changsha, Shanghai, and other cities in which a small number of workers and activists went on strike, the movements were quickly suppressed. In late December, under Qu Qiubais leadership, the CPC Central Committee issued a circular stating that it was too difficult to launch riots in so many areas all at once and instructing those areas that did not possess suitable conditions for insurrection not to immediately call for riots. It was decided that the revolts originally planned in Hunan and Hubei would be halted in hopes of preventing loss and correcting the error of indiscrimination that had thus far plagued the movement. However, at this time, the CPC Central Committee had not yet recognized that the mistakes in the guiding ideology and general strategy had arisen from leftist errors, making it impossible to completely correct the indiscriminate errors in the overall situation.
The leftist error that began with the failure of the Great Revolution and continued through the peasant revolution was a historical turning point in the rising war. It was rooted in anger at the KMT policy of massacring CPC members, leading to widespread agitation within the Party. At the same time, some who had committed rightist errors were so afraid of repeating those mistakes that they started to assume that "left" was better than "right," and in so doing, primed the pump for the development of leftist error. At this time, the CPC could not give urgent attention to and make accurate analysis of every pressing problem facing the Chinese revolution after the failure of the Great Revolution. Lacking experience in and understanding of Party struggle, they were unable to prevent the leftist errors of the anti-rightists while also finding a solution to every challenge the revolution faced.The Comintern representative Lominadze played a major role in the emergence of this leftist error. Through his lack of political discernment, his organizational penalties, and other measures, he became the main proponent or promoter of leftist policy. The Central Committee Politburo, under the guidance of Qu Qiubai was likewise in part directly responsible for this leftist error.
The line taken by Li Lisan was the "city as center" theory. On January 11, 1930, the Central Committee Politburo adopted the Motion Accepting the Letter of October 26,1929. On February 26, the CPC Central Committee issued  Circular No. 70, which went beyond the revolutionary statement, holding that "at present, the crisis is intensifying each day and the new wave of revolution" was gradually carrying out mass struggle all across the nation in "a balanced path to development." According to this estimate, the circular stipulated that the Party's "current general political path" should be the convergence of the various struggles taking place and that "the nationwide struggle should move from an anti-warlord war to a class war, overthrowing the KMT and establishing soviet power." The circular pointed out that the Party was not to continue implementing the strategy of accumulating power during the revolutionary ebb, but should focus on concentrating active aggression, with local workers being organized for political strikes, revolts, and mutiny and concentrating the Red Army in major cities. In April and May, the Central Committee and the Central Military Commission likewise made concrete plans for these actions. In the past, Li Lisan had published many articles in Red Flag, Bolshevik and other Party publications, such as one entitled "New Issues Facing the Revolutionary Upturn," in which he proposed a series of left-leaning points. After the outbreak of the Central Plains War and the Hunan-Guangdong-Guangxi Border War, Li Lisan and others believed that the revolution was complete and that the nation was mature. For this reason, at the June n, 1930, meeting of the Central Committee Politburo, Li Lian passed three drafts of the "Resolution on the Current Political Mission" (i.e., "New Heights in the Revolution, with Early Victory in a Few Provinces"). The resolution was mistaken in its estimation of the revolutionary situation and considered "the fundamental dangers of China s economic and political situation, which continues to be sharpened equally all across the country without any basic difference." It further stated that "the overall conclusion is that the new height of the revolution is before us now," and "there is a great possibility that we can turn this into a victory for the entire country."The resolution also held that "unprecedented world events indicate that the time for change and the great worldwide revolution are upon us," and that when the Chinese revolution broke out, it would "set off a grand revolution throughout the world." The Chinese revolution would be completed with a full victory in this final battle.
On the basis of this erroneous assessment of the revolutionary situation, the resolution held that at the time, there was no need for the Party to gradually accumulate and prepare revolutionary forces, because the masses were already not a small force, but a large force, and if there were to be an armed insurrection, it had to be a nationwide insurrection. The resolutions application of Russia's October Revolution to the Chinese situation was too mechanical, holding that as long as a sudden outbreak occurred in an industrial area or a great workers' struggle occurred in the political center, there would be an immediate victory of an armed uprising throughout the provinces and a nationwide regime would be established, gaining victory in every province and region throughout the country. Although the resolution was correct in acknowledging the importance of the Party's commitment to organizing the Red Army in rural areas, the task of the Red Army was to "cooperate with the armed uprisings in major cities, seize power, and establish a revolutionary regime throughout the country." For this reason, "the guerrilla tactics used in the past must be fundamentally changed." It also demanded that the Red Army should organize itself in a centralized way and conduct unified command and large-scale implementation of an offensive war.
The resolution's view of the nature of the Chinese revolution, the question of revolution, and the issue of revolutionary change similarly returned to the past policy of "continuous revolution," which was criticized at the Sixth National Congress as erroneous understanding. The resolution did acknowledge that at this stage the Chinese revolution was still a bourgeois democratic revolution and that its main task was still to oppose imperialism and feudalism, and it also affirmed that "the bourgeoisie is already a part of the reactionary alliance," and that, if the revolution gained early victory in one or several provinces, it would be necessary for the Party to confiscate the banks, enterprises, and factories in imperialist parts of China, and that it would even be "necessary to seize the banks, factories, and enterprises of the Chinese bourgeoisie." At the same time, politically speaking, it held that "it is necessary to go from a worker-peasant revolutionary government to the dictatorship of the proletariat."The resolution noted that "the beginning of the victory of the revolution and the founding of the revolutionary regime are the beginning of revolutionary change," saying further, "If we think that we can only start the revolution when it is possible to win it throughout the entire country, we are making a serious mistake," while the theory of stages of revolutionary change "is undoubtedly an extremely dangerous right-leaning concept."
Influenced by this erroneous line of thinking, Li Lisan and other leaders developed a plan with Wuhan as the focal point for the nationwide urban- 
centered uprising and the nationwide project of Red Army attacks on areas with cities at the center. In July heavy deployments were made in Nanjing, Shanghai, Wuhan, and other cities in preparation for riots. At the same time, provisions were made for the Red Army troops to i) block the Wuhan-Changsha Railway, 2) enter Nanchang and Jiujiang to cut off commerce to Wuhan and Changsha, 3) force their way into Wuhan, and 4) attack Liuzhou, Guilin, and Guangzhou. Red Army forces in these regions immediately put the instructions from the Central Military Commission into action. In late July, Red Army troops engaged in a battle at Pingjiang and, on July 27, they successfully captured Changsha.
When Li Lisan learned news of this victory, he became even more convinced that the Communists "would enter Wuhan," their "horses drink the waters of the Yangtze," and that this would bring them closer to national victory, making it a goal that could be quickly achieved. This led to further development of leftist error. From early to mid August, Li Lisan and other Party members adopted the slogan "Militarization" and set up the Central Action Committee as the highest command organ to lead the armed insurrection. This prompted leading organs at all levels, including those from the CPC, the Communist Youth League, and the trade unions, to merge into action committees (also called "commissions"), stopping the normal activities of the Party, regiment, and trade unions.They further proposed the launch of riots in Wuhan, the South Beijing Riot, the Shanghai General League Strike, and the establishment of the Central Soviet Government in Wuhan and the National Riot Plan, and also put forward the idea that "the soviets must prepare for war" and that hundreds of thousands of Chinese workers in Siberia should act quickly to accelerate the armed forces and "prepare for war against Japanese imperialism." In suggesting that Mongolia could gain victory in riots in China, they added that large numbers of troops should be sent to attack the reactionaries in northern China. Li Lisan and others in the Party called for all Party members to "be brave and daring, and to move forward courageously." Li Lisans erroneous thinking in this area spread all the way to the top.
Wang Minglus line of thinking was typical dogmatism. This was clearly manifested in a brochure he wrote entitled Two Directions. Though this pamphlet contains some criticism of Li Lisans inappropriate leftist thinking, it mistakenly pointed to Lis thinking as generally rightist, which hid the actual opportunist right-leaning thread. If Li s error was so clearly leftist, why did Wang misidentify it as rightist? This was mainly due to the fact that Wangs own thinking was even further left than Lis. In his view, the driving forces of the Chinese revolution were strictly the workers and peasants, while the petty bourgeoisie and all other classes were "already moving into reactionary camps," and so no room was left for "third factions" or "middle ground." He lumped the bourgeoisie and petty bourgeoisie under the same umbrella with imperialism and feudalism, regarding them all equally as targets of the revolution. They declared that in its present stage, the bourgeoisie democratic revolution could only gain a complete victory if it engaged in a struggle against the bourgeoisie. He emphasized that the national revolution had arrived and an offensive line must be put in place nationwide. He believed, "Currently, we have not yet entered a direct revolutionary situation in China, but as the new upsurge in the national revolutionary movement has grown and given the current condition of unbalanced development, the direct revolutionary situation can include, first and foremost, one or a few key provinces." He advocated that Hunan, Hubei, and Jiangxi Provinces "must really achieve the first victory for one or several provinces, then promote and fight for victory across the nation." Li Lisan advocated urban workers' riots as the key to the Chinese revolution, an urban-centric view that Wang Mingle likewise held. Wang followed the resolution proposed by the Comintern, saying, "The most credible sign that the new upsurge has led to a situation in which Chinas revolutionary struggle is ripe is that the workers' struggle has reached its climax in the strikes." The leaders organizing the economic struggle of the workers did in fact prepare for a strike in the Allied League, even noting that armed uprising was the Party's most important task. Although Wang Minglu also said that attention should be given to the Red Army, he did not completely understand the laws and revolutionary base areas under which the Red Army fought nor the laws of development of revolutionary principles. He accused the Party and the Red Army of "failing to establish centers in the winter of 1930 as bases for a secure revolution," believing this was the very rightist action to be opposed. Regarding the issue of the peasant revolution, Wang proposed that it was necessary to "firmly fight wealthy peasants" and "make wealthy peasants give poor peasants land," along with other erroneous leftist ideas. At the organizational level, he called for "actively supporting and implementing the struggles of international cadres, especially the workers, to reform and enrich the leading organs at all levels." 
Three leftist errors were committed within the Party in the seven year period before the Zunyi Meeting, spanning the time from the winter of 1927 to January ipjy Each of these errors shared a common feature - it was focused on an urban¬centered theory. Why was this basic error not corrected, but instead repeated? One fundamental reason is that the ideological line of thought, which formed the basis for the political line of action, was not correct. It was impossible to formulate a positive political line of action when the ideological line of thought was wrong. In particular, Wang Minglu's view did not proceed from Chinas actual situation, but instead simply treated dogma as a sacred treasure that could not be violated. In all of his writings, he merely acted on instructions from the Comintern. In all the international Communist movements, there had never been an experience of rural peasants surrounding cities, and in all its writings the Comintern stated its belief that the Chinese revolution must make cities its focus. Their logic was that foreign uprisings had always experienced proletarian victory in the cities, and the Chinese revolution was led by the proletariat, which must always be associated with the city. In other words, if the Party's focus was on the peasants rather than urban areas, that meant "its rejection of the city is a denial of the proletariat's leadership over the peasantry, which will result in the Party becoming a party of the petty bourgeoisie." At that time, the CPC Central Committee always worried that taking rural areas as the focus was straying too far from the cities, for without leadership from the cities, there could be no leadership of the proletariat. Growing from such one-sided erroneous thinking, armed urban uprisings were taken as the main symbol for promoting the peak of the national revolution, which led to repeated insistence that efforts in soviet areas "should be transformed from a simple village to an important city," taking workers as the focus of the city. This viewpoint neglecting the idea of using rural areas as revolutionary bases was obviously not suited to China's actual situation.
Marxism holds that there are common basic rules in the development of human society and that it is wrong to deny these basic laws. However, there are different historical aspects in different places and among different people groups, and a failure to proceed based on the actual situation in a specific locale, beginning from the specific characteristics to enact a specific revolution according to the universal truths of Marxism-Leninism, will make it impossible to guide the revolution to victory. The three left-leaning errors during this period are the most basic historical lesson demonstrating this principle. The entire historical experience of the Communist Party of China has repeatedly proven one truth: when the political line of action departs from the dialectical materialist line of thought, errors will be made and revolutionary causes will be harmed. On the other hand, adherence to the ideological line of dialectical materialism to formulate a political line of action that is in keeping with Chinas actual conditions allows for continuous development of the revolutionary cause. 
CHAPTER 3
The Elucidation of the New Democracy Theory 
I The Initial Formation of the New Democratic Theoretical System
1.	Proposal Regarding the Task of Incorporating Marxism into China
During the period of the Great Revolution and the Agrarian Revolutionary War, the Communist Party of China was guided by the principles of Marxism- Leninism and, with the help of the Comintern, led the Chinese revolution to a major victory. At the same time, the question of how best to incorporate the principles of Marxism-Leninism into the on-the-ground situation of the Chinese revolution still remained. There were also major mistakes made during this time, particularly in the period from 1931 to 1934., when "leftist" dogmatism, represented by Wang Ming, treated the question of theory as a separate issue from Chinas actual condition. Instead of applying the principles of Marxist-Leninist thought to the specific situation of the Chinese revolution, they treated it as a ready¬made formula to be applied wholesale to the Chinese revolution, particularly in the form of instructions from the Comintern, demonstrating a sort of blind obedience and taking what they called an international route. It was registered as a golden rule, the standard by which all theoretical and practical work was measured. This led to ruination of the Party's early work in White territories, which in turn led to the failure of the Red Army, another setback in the Chinese revolution. These ups and downs in the revolutionary cause made the CPC deeply aware of the importance of connecting theory to practice and applying foreign experience and the directives of the Comintern according to national conditions. Mao Zedongs "Strategic Issues in the Chinese Revolutionary War," Practical Theory,Contradictions, and other works demonstrated that the correct ideological line had been re-established within the Central Committee. However, newly returned from the Soviet Union after the outbreak of the War of Resistance, Wang Ming once again committed the error of seeking to copy foreign experience and implement the instructions of the Comintern wholesale. The main difference now was that he had moved from left to right on the political spectrum.
At that time, the Comintern and the Soviet Union actively supported the Chinese people's War of Resistance, but once again, they overestimated the power of the Kuomintang, while underestimating the power of the CPC. It was mistakenly believed that Chiang Kai-sheks army could clamp down and combat Japanese imperialism on the Chinese battlefield. They advocated that the KMT should be accommodated, with more concessions made to them. They disagreed with the CPC's principle of independence with a united front and the policy of unity and struggle. They proposed that "all should obey the Anti-Japanese National United Front" and that "everything should go through the Anti-Japanese National United Front." They only looked at the regular and positional warfare of the Nationalist Army, ignoring the role of the Communist-led anti-Japan guerrilla warfare. Wang Ming made these views the basis for his observation of China's anti-Japan issues and sought to develop right-wing errors in these new historical conditions. He declared that both the KMT and the CPC were "made up of a large number of outstanding young Chinese people" and that Chiang Kai-shek would "become an immortal national hero of China." He advocated that "everything go through the United Front" and "all obey the United Front." He did not support the principles of "independence and freedom," but openly opposed the proposal of joining the leadership of the United Front. He despised the People's Army and the guerrilla warfare led by the CPC, neglected the work of defending the anti-Japan bases behind enemy lines, and pinned all hope of victory in the War of Resistance on the regular warfare of the KMT army. He advocated the implementation of a strategic approach of "competitive warfare and guerrilla warfare with positional warfare." He even proposed that the armies led by the CPC and KMT should be unified in preparation, armor, discipline, welfare, command, operational plans, and operations. As Wang Ming continued to work under the banner of "international communism," his erroneous ideas continued to hold some deceptive power and were implemented in some areas, causing certain losses in the development of the War of Resistance and the people s revolutionary forces.
At the Sixth Plenary Session of the Sixth National Congress of the Central Committee of the CPC, held from the end of September to the beginning of November 1938, Wang Mings rightist error was basically overcome. It was at this plenary session that the CPC clearly stated that the task of "solidifying Marxism in China" would be based on the experience and teaching gained in the seventeen years since the CPC had been established.
In a report on the theme of "On a New Stage," prepared by Mao Zedong for the conference, there was is a section devoted to "Learning." In it, he pointed out that "the political party that directs a great revolutionary movement without revolutionary theory or revolutionary knowledge, and without a deep understanding of the actual movement, cannot possibly be victorious/" For this reason, he proposed three corresponding learning points. The first was to learn Marxist theory, the second to learn historical heritage, and the third to learn current practical movements. Regarding the first point, he said, "We are leading a large nation with a population of hundreds of thousands of people to carry out a great, unprecedented struggle. Thus, the general and in-depth study of Marxist- Leninist theory is a major problem for us to solve, and it requires our focused attention. He called for all "to enter a Party-wide learning contest to see who can really learn something. For those who learn a good deal, that s even better."
However, in the study of Marxism, it was important to first address the issue of attitude. And what sort of attitude would produce the correct approach to one’s study? Mao Zedong believed that Marxism-Leninism should not be regarded as a dogma, but as a guide for action. It was not enough, he said, to simply learn the words of this school of thought, but it was necessary to learn it as a revolutionary science as well. Likewise, it was not enough to understand its conclusions and general principles, but was also imperative that it be studied from the perspective of Marxist-Leninist theory and its methods of observation and problem-solving be adopted. It was especially important to "learn to apply Marxist-Leninist theory to the specific environment of China" and "apply it according to Chinese characteristics" because "Marxism must be combined with the unique characteristics of China and be passed on to fit a specific ethnic group in order to become a reality." He added that "distancing oneself from Chinese characteristics to discuss Marxism is just abstract, empty Marxism." For this reason, he said, "Let Marxism be embodied in China in such a way that it has the necessary Chinese characteristics in each expression of it,"calling this "a problem that the entire nation needs to solve." Mao pointed out sharply and sternly that, "The rigid, foreign, high-sounding style must be abolished and the empty, abstract tone proclaimed less, and dogmatism must be put to rest and replaced by a fresh, lively Chinese style that is popular with the Chinese people. The arguments were later developed more fully by Mao in Practical Theory and Contradictions, where he indicated more clearly the attitude of the CPC toward both Marxism and the directives of the Comintern. It was only "making Marxism concrete in China" that was consistent with the spirit of Marxism.
In his article "On the Anti-Japanese National Front and Party Organization," Zhang Wentian expressed the same view as Mao Zedong. He believed that "the principles and methods of Marxism are international, but we are doing the organizational work in China. We must make a strict assessment of the characteristics of Chinas politics, economy, culture, ideology, national customs, and morality, and we must correctly understand these characteristics. Only then will we decide on the form of our struggle, the form of our organization, and our working methods." He went on to say that "in order to make the organizational work Chinese and place it in a national environment" in the Party's efforts to realize the principles of Marxism, it was important to understand that "one will surely be frustrated if one hopes to transfer the decision of a foreign party into China." In the Sixth Plenary Session, the entire Party was called "to learn to apply Marxism-Leninism and international experience to every practical struggle in China.
The application of the principles of Marxism according to Chinese charac¬teristics and the process of making Marxism concrete in China formed a sort of sublimation of the understanding of Communism espoused by Chinese Communists represented by Mao, which they gained through a hard, torturous 
path. This sublimation went beyond the general revolutionary experience and became a basic principle guiding the Chinese revolution. It was a principle that was clear throughout the entire Party, indicating that the CPC s thinking had entered a mature stage of theoretical thought, which provided the most favorable internal conditions for the final formation of the New Democratic theoretical system. Throughout this process, external conditions were gradually becoming increasingly available.
2.	The Elucidation of the New Democracy Theory
After the outbreak of the War of Resistance Against Japanese Aggression, the CPC came out of a narrow world that had been subjected to a tightly sealed lock to become a large national party, and as it publicly set out on the huge stage of national political life, it received more - and closer - attention. People were eager to understand the CPC's views of the current situation in and the future of China. The Party had to maintain independence in the Anti-Japanese National Front, and it had to present its own political propositions that distinguished it from other political parties before the people of the country, so as to attract the people by their own upright ways.
After the beginning of the war, the Kuomintang and the CPC launched a fierce debate on the issue of the Three People's Principles. The KMT and the CPC had just reached a cooperation agreement. Chiang Kai-shek stated in his "Talks on the Manifesto of the Communist Party" that the "Three People's Principles" were "the founding principles of the Chinese nation," and that "China only has one direction toward which it must work today," and that was the Three People's Principles. At the beginning of 1938, KMT diehards launched a propaganda campaign in Wuhan to advocate "one ideology" with "one political party" and "one leader." KMT-controlled newspapers, such as Mopping-up Operation, published articles attacking the CPC and Marxism. The KMT literally clamored, "The KMT is The golden child' in all parties, and no other party is equal to it," stating that both then and in the future "there is no need for independence.
By the time the war had reached a sort of stalemate, this sort of propaganda had intensified even further. In December 1938, Zhang Junyi of the National Socialist Party published an "open letter to Mr Mao Zedong." While advocating the abolition of the border area, the Eighth Route Army, and the New Fourth 
Army, he also discussed with Mao Zedong the "theory of the Communist Party," writing aggressively, "At the current stage, when Mr Mao and others are hard at work on foreign and national wars, it is better to put Marxism to one side and make the Chinese people think they are on one side or the other of a black and white issue, without resorting to gray areas or disingenuous overtones. Spreading all sorts of Chinese ideology is the starting point for saving the nation, and it is also the easiest step." A renegade member of the CPC, Ye Qing (Ren Zhuoxuan) was known as "the theoretician of the KMT." He advocated even more publicly that "The Three Peoples Principles can satisfy Chinas present concerns and all its future demands. With their realization, China does not need socialism, thus organizing a Party aimed at achieving socialism and socialist struggle is not necessary." He added that all parties aside from the KMT had no reason to exist independently, not only at that time, but also in the future. In January 1939, Chiang Kai-shek made a speech at the Fifth Plenary Session of the Fifth National Congress of the KMT, calling members "to wake up the Party spirit, carry forward the Party's morality, and consolidate."In a speech entitled "Organizing the Party's Essentials," the so-called "waking of the Party's spirit" and "promoting the Party's morality" were the realization of "one ideology," "one political party," and "one leader."On the pretext that it was necessary to avoid war, Chiang Kai-shek claimed that the people would not invoke their civil rights, and that it was impossible to implement "constitutionalism," but only "military politics" and "martial law" could be implemented. He emphasized that the KMT should "manage everything" and "implement a party to govern" and "a party to build the nation.   In September, he published a lengthy article entitled "The System of the Three People's Principles and its Procedures," advocating what he called "a party to govern the nation" and "a party to build the nation," saying that "the day victory is achieved in the War of Resistance is the day the founding of the nation is complete. "This put the issue of "where China is going" in stark terms before anyone who cared about the destiny of the nation. At this point, it was imperative that the CPC systematically express its position and views on this question.
Though dissatisfied with the KMT's authoritarianism and the incompatibility of the war, some representatives of the national bourgeoisie had their doubts about the CPC's propositions and the future of the War of Resistance Against Japanese Aggression. Some were also trying to take a path outside the political propositions of the KMT and the CPC, hoping to establish a European-American style of bourgeois republic in China,
Cie Chis made the question of China s future a theoretical issue of great importance. Mac) Zedong, Zhang Wentian, Zhou Enlai, and other leaders in the Central Committee of the CPC and members of the Can an academic circle published a series of articles and speeches on the attacks the KMT diehards had made on Marxism and the CPC. They rigorously exposed and criticized all sorts of false Three Peoples Principles, discussed the difference between Sun Yat-sens Three Peoples Principles and the older Three Peoples Principles and the relationship between the Three Peoples Principles and Communism, thus clarifying the theory and program of the CPC and answering the question of where China was going.
Mao Zedong strongly refuted the paradox which held that "recognizing the Three Peoples Principles will reap Communism." He analyzed the history of the development of the Three People s Principles, comparing the similarities and differences between them and communism and pointing out that Sun Yat-sens reinterpretation of the revolutionary Three People s Principles was the same as the basic program of the CPC s New Democracy platform. For this reason, the CPC recognized the Three People s Principles as the political foundation for the Anti-Japanese United Front. However, the two were different. They were two different ideologies guided by different worldviews, and their specific policies at the present stage were not identical. Their revolutionary thoroughness was different, making the prospects of their revolutions different. After the completion of the new democratic revolution, there was still a supreme program for establishing a socialist and communist social system, but not the Three People s Principles. It was a mistake to ignore this difference. It was not only wrong for the KMT to expect the CPC to "retract" communism, but it also showed that the Three People s Principles they were talking about were not Sun Yat-sens revolutionary Three People s Principles, but merely a counterfeit. They called for "one ideology," but in fact, they denied the united front and denied the status of the CPC, the workers, and the peasants, and adhered instead to authoritarianism in a "one-party dictatorship."This sort of retrogression was simply not feasible. Mao said that the CPC would always sincerely implement long-term cooperation according to the Three People s Principles, and that it would never abandon any of its allies.
The debate between the KMT and the CPC regarding the Three People s Principles further clarified the nature of Chinese society and the characteristics of its historical development, while also further clarifying the major issues of the nature, tasks, and basic strategics of the Chinese revolution and promoting the CPC s formation of a New Democratic theoretical system.
The CPC regarded the War of Resistance Against Japanese Aggression as a stage in Chinas New Democratic revolution. To carry out the War of Resistance, it was necessary not only to expel the Japanese aggressors, but also to create conditions suited to the construction of the new China. In an effort to explain to the entire Party and all the people in the country the views of the Party on the Chinese revolution and the construction of the new China, Mao Zedong engaged in a great deal of theoretical work in Yanan and concentrated the collective wisdom of the whole Party systematically summarizing the experience gained in the Chinese revolution.
In his article "The May 4th Movement,"published on May 1,1939, Mao wrote, "The May 4th Movement of twenty years ago showed that the bourgeois democratic revolution against imperialism and feudalism in China had developed to a new stage."3 He added, "The completion of the Chinese democratic revolution relies on certain social forces. These forces are the working class, the peasant class, the intellectuals, and the progressive bourgeoisie, and the foundational revolutionary force of the workers, farmers, military, intellectuals, and merchants are the workers and peasants, and the leadership lies with the working class. If you depart from this fundamental revolutionary force and the leadership of the working class, it is impossible to complete the democratic revolution against imperialism and feudalism." In his speech "The Direction of the Youth Movement" on May 4, he called the ongoing Chinese revolution "The Chinese people s revolution against imperialism and feudalism," saying, "The bourgeoisie has been unable to complete this revolution, so it must be completed by the efforts of the proletariat and all the people. After the fall of imperialism and feudalism, it would be necessary to "establish a peoples democratic republic" and "build a people s democratic system." This would be "different from the current semi-colonial, semi-feudal state, but not the same as the future socialist system." Even so, there was "no doubt that China will eventually develop into a socialist system. No one can overthrow this law.
Mao laid out several points more clearly in these two articles. First, he made it plain that the May 4th Movement had ushered Chinas anti-imperialist, anti- feudal revolution into a new stage, and that this stage of the revolution had to be led by the working class. Further, the goal of this stage was to establish a people s democratic republic that was different from the semi-colonial, semi-feudal state and that would bring about the development of a future socialist state. Obviously, Maos new democratic theory had already been brewing by this point, with careful consideration and formulation going into the process, but he had not yet put forward a clear concept of the "new democracy," nor had he had time to systematically demonstrate or explain it.
The scientific concept of the new democracy was first proposed in The Chinese Revolution and the Communist Party of China, written in December 1939, a textbook written by Mao Zedong and several other comrades in Yan'an. The second chapter, entitled, "The Chinese Revolution," was written by Mao, and the first, "Chinese Society," was drafted by Mao and revised by others. The Chinese Revolution and the Communist Party of China was first published from Yan'an in the journal The Communist. After the founding of the new China, this work was approved by Mao for inclusion in Selected Works of Mao Zedong. In the article, Mao first distinguished the bourgeoisie-democratic revolution from the old democratic revolution and the new democratic revolution, stating clearly, "The so-called new democratic revolution is the masses in an anti-imperialist, anti-feudal revolution under the leadership of the proletariat."
Why was China's current bourgeois-democratic revolution only considered a new democratic revolution? This was determined by China's actual national situation.
Mao wrote, "To recognize the nature of Chinese society - that is, to recognize China's national situation - is fundamental for recognizing all revolutionary issues." For this reason, The Chinese Revolution and the Communist  Party of China began with an analysis of Chinese society, then, based on this analysis, went on to discuss the issues, tasks, motivation, nature, and future of the Chinese revolution in detail.
Mao pointed out that China's current society was a colonial, semi-colonial, and semi-feudal society. This social nature determined the main object or main enemy of the Chinese revolution at this stage, which was imperialism and feudalism. Among them, imperialist national oppression was the greatest oppression, and thus imperialism was the greatest and fiercest enemy of the Chinese people. After Japan's invasion of China by force, the main enemy of the Chinese revolution was Japanese imperialism and all traitors and reactionaries who colluded with, publicly surrendered to, or were prepared to surrender to Japan. The tasks of the Chinese revolution was to overthrow imperialist oppression and overthrow the feudal landlord's oppressive democratic revolution, with the most important being to overthrow the imperialist national revolution. These two tasks were interrelated.
The enemy of the Chinese revolution was extremely powerful. Who could accomplish an arduous task such as that faced by the Chinese revolution? This was the driving force of the Chinese revolution. Mao Zedong analyzed all the characteristics of the economic status and political situation of various classes of Chinese society in turn, then came to the conclusion that the Chinese proletariat had many outstanding advantages, so it could become the most basic driving force behind the Chinese revolution. He said, "If the Chinese revolution is not led by the proletariat, it will certainly not be victorious." But if it were impossible to win by the power of a single class, then it was essential that all potential revolutionary classes unite in a variety of ways, organizing a united front for the revolution. Among the various classes of Chinese society, the peasants were the most solid allies of the working class, and the urban petty bourgeoisie was also a reliable allied force. To a certain degree and at certain times, the national bourgeoisie could also be counted on as an allied force.
The Chinese bourgeoisie presented a complex issue. Mao Zedong made it clear that "the bourgeoisie is clearly distinguished between the upper bourgeoisie with comprador traits and the national bourgeoisie." This was an extremely important distinction. Mao pointed out that the national bourgeoisie class was subdivided into two classes. On the one hand, it was under the oppression of imperialism and feudalism, so it could become one of the revolutionary forces. On the other, because of their economic and political weakness, they did not completely sever their connection with imperialism and feudalism. For this reason, they lacked the complete courage necessary to oppose imperialism and feudalism. When the revolutionary forces of the people were strong, they were most obvious. Mao pointed out that the duality of the national bourgeoisie determined that they could participate in the revolution against imperialism and against the bureaucratic warlord government for a certain period of time, becoming a kind of revolutionary force. During another period, lying behind the comprador class was the danger of their becoming counter-revolutionary agents. During the anti¬-Japan period, they were not only different from the landlords and capitulations of the upper bourgeoisie, but also from the die-hards within that class. They were still better revolutionary allies. For this reason, it was best to "take caution in dealing with the national bourgeoisie. This policy is absolutely necessary." At the game time, it was pointed out that Chinas comprador class belonged to several imperialist countries. In the anti-Japanese war, the pro-Japan upper bourgeoisie and the Anglo-American upper bourgeoisie should be distinguished. The former was capitulationist and should be defeated. The latter was die-hard and two-faced, and thus the Party should deal with them according to a revolutionary two-faced policy. Further, many enlightened gentlemen from the small and medium scale landlord class - that is, landlords who to a degree were capitalists, but who held enthusiastic anti-Japan sentiments - needed to be united to fight against Japan. (Distinctions made between non-pro-Japan and pro-Japan, Anglo-American, large scale landlords, small and medium scale landlords, and the enlightened gentlemen were not mentioned when The Chinese Revolution and the Communist Party of China was first published in The Chinese Revolution and the Communist Party of China. On March 2, 1940, Mao first mentioned this issue in "Strategic Issues Facing The Current Anti-Japanese United Front." After April of that same year, he made the corresponding changes to this part of The Chinese Revolution and the Communist Party of China.  The article was collected, edited, and published by the Propaganda Department of the CPC Central Committee that November in Party Construction Proceedings)
The colonial, semi-colonial, and semi-feudal nature of Chinese society, which was Chinas unique national condition, determined that "the nature of the Chinese revolution at this stage is not proletarian socialism, but a bourgeois democracy." However, "at this time, Chinas bourgeois democratic revolution is no longer an old-style general bourgeois democratic revolution. Such models of revolution are outdated. This is a new style of special bourgeois democratic revolution. It is the sort of revolution that has developed in China and in all colonial and semi¬colonial countries, and it is called the new democratic revolution."^ This sort of new democratic revolution was "an anti-imperialist, anti-feudalist revolution of the masses under the leadership of the proletariat," and "Chinese society must go through this revolution before it can further develop into a socialist society. Otherwise, such development is impossible."^ This was the most significant conclusion drawn by Mao in the article.
Mao also stated that the new democratic revolution would inevitably bring about two consequences. On the one hand, it cleared the obstacles on the road to capitalist development, and it would bring about a considerable degree of capitalist development. On the other, there were also factors related to socialist development. These socialist factors included the proportion of the proletariat and Communist Party members who held political power in the country whether peasants, intellectuals, and the urban petty bourgeoisie recognized the leadership of the proletariat within the Party, and whether there was cooperation between the state economy and the peoples movements in the democratic republic. With a favorable international environment added to this mix, the future of the Chinese revolution would move toward socialism rather than capitalism.
The publication of Mao Zedong’s The Chinese Revolution and the Chinese Communist Party opened the eyes of the people in a huge way. It offered such a clear, systematic explanation of the nature of Chinese society and a series of fundamental challenges facing the Chinese revolution, that this dazzling, con¬fusing social phenomenon suddenly seemed organized and easy to understand, allowing the people to respond with greater sophistication and adaptability. As the situation became increasingly clear, it was easier to keep a clear grasp of the basic direction and maintain a consistent pace. The huge impact it made at that time and beyond was difficult to calculate.
The "new democracy" banner was lifted high. However, what were the specific points of the political, economic, and cultural aspects of the new democracy, and what were their characteristics? These and many other issues needed to be further elaborated and explained.
In January 1940, the First Congress of the Shaanxi-Gansu-Ningxia Border Region Cultural Association was held in Yan an. There, Mao Zedong delivered a lengthy speech entitled "The New Democratic Politics and New Democratic Culture." It was reported that "this long speech began in the afternoon and went on until after the gaslights were lit." Further descriptions indicate that "the five or six hundred listeners crowded in that venue were inspired by and drawn to his vivid, insightful words. They listened with great concentration and were very enthusiastic, even bursting into applause from time to time." A month later, this speech was published in the first issue of Chinses Culture. When it was reprinted in the 98th and 99th issues of Liberation  a few days later, the title was changed to "New Democracy." Mao himself said that the main purpose of the speech was to refute the diehards, but its significance went well beyond this scope.
In the speech, Mao clearly addressed the question of where China was going. His purpose was stated clearly when he said, "We want to build a new China." He said, "For many years, we Communists have not only made up Chinas political revolution, struggled for its economic revolution, and fought for a Chinese cultural revolution, but we have done so for the purpose of building a new Chinese society and a new Chinese nation."
During the speech, Mao systematically expounded on the theory and program of the new democracy and once again talked about the issue of integrating Marxism into China. He said, "Formulatively absorbing foreign things has brought great loss to China in the past. The same is true of the Chinese Communists' application of Marxism in China. It is necessary that we complete both the universal truth of Marxism and the practice of the Chinese revolution. The proper unification of the land means that we must combine communism with the characteristics of the nation and that it will be useful only in a particular national form. It must not be applied subjectively."
In this way, Mao put the basic characteristics and the specific content of the political, economic, and cultural aspects of the new democratic state into a clear and thorough outline of what sort of "new China" was to be established by the CPC.
In the article, Mao refuted an argument spread by the diehards, which was that since the CPC had pushed the socialist system to a later stage and declared that "The Three People's Principles are necessary for China today and the Party is willing to strive to realize them," then Communism should be set aside for the time being. Mao wrote, "Communism is the entire ideological system of the proletariat and a new social system. Without communism to guide the democratic revolution in China, the revolution is sure to fail now, let alone at later stages of the revolution. He also specifically analyzed the parts of The Three People's Principles that were similar to Communism, as well as those that were different.
"New Democracy" was an article that provided both a strict theoretical system and a very strong argument. Mao let the content of this article brew for a long time as he repeatedly revised it, soliciting opinions from various comrades throughout the writing process. Two decades later, he said, "When the first draft of 'New Democracy' was half done, China was in a particular century, the first eighty years of which constituted one stage, while in the last twenty years, we have seen a new stage emerge. For this reason, I have had to rewrite the original many times before finalizing the manuscript." Even the reactionary scholar Ye Qing, who had a habit of attacking the Communist Party without providing any theory of his own, could not help but say after reading "New Democracy," "As for Mao Zedong, from now on I will take him as a Communist theorist."The article had greater repercussions, both inside and outside the Party, in that it enabled people to gain a clearer understanding of the current goals of the struggle and the direction of Chinas future, so that more and more people would come together in the new democracy.
The primary difference between the new democratic revolution and the old democratic revolution lay in the question of leadership by the proletariat. The issue of the dictatorship of the proletariat had long been raised within the CPC. However, in Chinas complicated environment, how could the proletariat take leadership? Mao Zedong also spent a long period considering and exploring this question before offering a comprehensive exposition in the article "The Communist Party," in which he stated, "The experience of the past eighteen years has taught us that the united front, armed struggle, and Party building are the three magic weapons the Communist Party of China may employ in defeating the enemies of the Chinese revolution." Regarding the relationship between these three, Mao wrote, "The united front and armed struggle are the two basic weapons to defeat the enemy. The united front implements armed struggle. Party organization is master of the united front and armed struggle, while the latter two are the weapons used to carry out the heroic rush against the enemy." He went on, "The correct understanding of these three things and the relationship between them is equivalent to correctly leading the entire revolution." Currently, he said, "we have been able to correctly address the issues of the united front and armed struggle, and are correctly handling the issue of Party organization as wellC° This was an important summary of his view of the CPC's struggle over the previous eighteen years.
What enabled Mao Zedong to produce such a huge theoretical work was, on the one hand, the fact that he had always been rooted in the rich, infinite practice of the Chinese revolutionary struggle, allowing him to deepen his understanding one step at a time in a progression that grew out of his attention to the new situations and challenges he met in real life. As he observed and thought deeply about these things, and through repeated exchange of ideas with other thinkers who understood the actual situation, he was able to brainstorm new theories without falling into an inward, personal view of the situation that was detached from reality. On the other hand, he delved diligently and painstakingly into Marxist works. His approach was based on the assumption that theoretical study lay in application, and in order to apply it, one must read frequently and with great focus, studying classic works of Marxism-Leninism and learn the development process of Marxism. Through the debates and criticism of various theoretical viewpoints, his understanding of the universal truths of Marxism was deepened. He once said to Zeng Zhi, "When I was writing 'New Democracy, I read The Communist Manifesto many times."
Mao always believed that it was important to indicate the direction and future of the revolution, but that this alone was not enough. It was also necessary to determine the policies and strategies by which these goals may be achieved. He said that only by "clarifying theory and actual policy" could the solution to the problem be completely achieved. Of course, at that time, this attracted more attention to Mao's work. It was also the actual policy issue facing the Anti¬Japanese National United Front at the time, rather than the specific policies that needed to be addressed in all aspects of the new China, but there were many similarities between the two.
The end of 1940 marked the eve of the Southern Anhui Incident. The situation was grave, and Mao was busy with his work. Even so, he did not relax at all, but continued to make a comprehensive, systematic summary of the Party's historical experience, particularly its experience with the national united front strategy. On December 4 and December 13, the meeting of the Central Politburo held serious discussions on these issues. Mao pointed out at the meeting that summing up past experiences and lessons should be divided into three periods: the Great Revolution, the Soviet period, and the War of Resistance Against Japanese Aggression. The general mistake lay in a lack of understanding of the long-term, unbalanced nature of the Chinese revolution. Many "leftist" mistakes were made in the previous Soviet stage because Marxism-Leninism was not sufficiently linked to the actual situation on the ground. Mao proposed that a committee should be organized to summarize the Party's policy issues, and another appointed to formulate regulations.
On December 25, based on the comprehensive summary of the experience of the Central Committee of the CPC, Mao Zedong drafted a Party directive on the current situation and policies. (The policy part of this directive is included in Selected Works of Mao Zedong, under the title "Policy on Income.") The directive clearly stated, "In the current situation at the height of anti-communist sentiment, our policy has a decisive significance." It continued, "Throughout the period of the War of Resistance Against Japanese Aggression, no matter what the situation, the Party's Anti-Japanese National United Front policy must not be changed. Many of the policies from the past decade of the Agrarian Revolution cannot simply be quoted now." The directive criticized some "leftist" opportunist mistakes that occurred during the Agrarian Revolution, saying, "The current Anti-Japanese National United Front policy is neither a joint denial of struggle nor a struggle to deny unity, but a policy combining both unity and struggle."
The directive clarified and stipulated a series of policies for the Anti-Japanese National United Front, including i) independent and united policy of the unified front, 2) independent military strategy, which was essentially guerrilla warfare that did not abandon traditional warfare under the right conditions, 3) in the struggle against anti-communist diehards, the "Use of conflict, fighting for the majority and opposing the minority in order to break through" and insisting on "reasonable, favorable, restrained" treatment, 4) in enemy-occupied and KMT-controlled areas, adopting a policy of "shadowing, long-term ambushes, consolidating strength, and waiting for opportunities," and 3) developing progressive forces in domestic relations, striving in intermediate forces, and isolating stubborn forces. These and other such policies were part of the directive.
The directive was based on a specific class analysis, particularly emphasizing the need to make various distinctions, such as distinguishing between pro-Japanese and the British and American landlords of the upper bourgeoisie who advocated an anti-Japanese stand. A distinction was likewise made between the duplicitous, anti-communist upper bourgeoisie and the two-faced national bourgeoisie, small and medium landlords, and the enlightened gentry. Internationally, different imperialist countries also needed to be distinguished. Many other distinctions of this sort had to be made. The directive made clear that "our policies are built on these distinctions. The different policies mentioned above are derived from the differences within these class relationships."
With regard to specific policies, the directive also set clear, specific policies on political organization, labor, land, taxation, eliminating traitors, human rights, economics, culture and education, and the military, all according to the strategic principles of the united front.
The final demand of the directive was that "the tactical principles in the above-mentioned united front and the many specific policies stipulated in these principles must be resolutely implemented by the whole Party. The Japanese invaders and the domestic large-scale landlords and upper bourgeoisie will implement high-pressure anti-communist, anti-peoples policies and military offensives. During this time, it is only through implementation of the policies mentioned here that we will be able to persist in resisting Japan, develop a united front, gain the sympathy of the people throughout the country, and strive for a better tomorrow."
The formulation of the new democratic theory and the adoption of a series of guidelines and policies for the Anti-Japanese National United Front marked the maturation of Mao Zedong Thought, which combined Marxism with the practical experience of the Chinese revolution. After eighteen turbulent years, Mao finally pointed the Chinese people along a correct path by which victory in the democratic revolution could be gained and a new China built that was suited to Chinas national conditions.
In his early years, Mao Zedong said, "Ideology is like a dag. Once the flag is set up, it is a signal for everyone to see. Only then can they know the way to go."This Hag had to be vivid, clear, and simple, and had to have a connotation that was rich and certain. This would make it easier for more people to understand and accept. The Chinese people began to accept Marxism from around the time of the May 4th Movement. After twenty years of arduous exploration and a very circuitous route, they Hnally succeeded in combining Marxism with Chinese revolutionary practice. During the War of Resistance Against Japanese Aggression, they were able to raise the banner of the "new democracy," so that more and more people would "understand" and "accept" it. This was a major event in Chinese history. It not only had a major impact during the middle and late stages of the war, but also played a huge guiding role in the future Chinese revolution and construction of the new China. 
II Further Development of the New Democratic Theory
1.	The Establishment of the Status of the New Democratic Theory and Development of its Policy
Building around the new democratic theory, the CPC enriched and gradually fleshed out its idea on the path to a revolutionary theory, the construction of the People's Army, the strategy and tactics of a people's war, the strategy of a united front, economic thought, and the direction of cultural work. This demonstrated that from the Party's failure in the Great Revolution to the rise of the Agrarian War, and from the failure of the fifth anti-encirclement campaign to the rise of the War of Resistance Against Japanese Aggression, it had accumulated much rich experience in revolution, especially during the War of Resistance. The Party faced an intricate international situation and domestic environment, appropriately addressing new problems arising in the national and class struggles, and gained much relevant experience in the process. This furthered their understanding of the principles of the Chinese revolution, as Mao pointed out when he said, "In the anti-Japanese period, we have only formulated the general line of the Party and set some specific policies. At this time, we recognized the inevitable kingdom of the Chinese democratic revolution, and thus we have gained our freedom." It is evident that during the War of Resistance, Mao Zedong was already in the process of integrating Marxism-Leninism into the Chinese revolution. The combination of revolutionary practice and the leap to a new stage formed a New Democratic theoretical system. It was multi-faceted and multi-layered in terms of politics, economics, military, culture, and Party building, and now it had a complete form. The new democratic ideas and theories had been tested in practice and taken on the following ideas:
1)	It systemically summarized the historical experience of work in the White Area and construction of the rural revolutionary base area, correctly formulated the Party's strategy for struggle in the Japanese occupation zone and KMT- ruled area, and the principles and policies of the economic, political, and cultural construction of the liberated area. 
The struggle for encircling cities in the countryside was based on establishing rural revolutionary bases and conducting armed protest as the main form of struggle. Mao wrote, "Focusing on armed struggle does not mean that other forms of struggle can be abandoned. On the contrary, armed struggles cannot be won without support from other forms of struggle. Similarly, focusing on rural work does not mean that urban work can be abandoned while work is conducted in the vast rural areas under enemy control. Rather, there is no division between urban and rural work, for if the rural work becomes isolated, the entire revolution will fail.For this reason, the CPC, under the leadership of Mao Zedong, systematically summed up the experience gained and lessons learned during the Party's work in the White Area since the founding of the CPC. Based on the semi-colonial and semi-feudal characteristics of Chinese society at that time, it creatively formed a suitable set of strategies for the Japanese occupied and KMT- ruled areas. At the same time, it systematically summed up the lessons learned from the construction of the rural revolutionary base areas since the outbreak of the Anti-Japanese War in 1927, and formulated guidelines and policies suited to the actual situation of economic, political, and cultural construction in the liberated areas during the Anti-Japanese War. The implementation of these strategies and guidelines for struggle, both directly and indirectly, alongside the guerrilla war launched by hundreds of thousands of soldiers and civilians behind enemy lines and in the liberated areas truly made the War of Resistance Against Japanese Aggression a national revolution.
2)	The systematic summarization of the lessons learned through Party building and the creative launch of the rectification movement brought about a unified understanding throughout the Party that was based on Marxism-Leninism and Mao Zedong Thought.
On the eve of the Anti-Japanese War and the War of Resistance Against Japanese Aggression, the Central Committee of the CPC, under Mao's leadership, systematically summed up the lessons learned regarding the issue of Party building and further strengthened Party building from the ideological perspective. It proposed a summary of the experiences and lessons of the Chinese revolution with the basic principles of an epistemology of dialectical materialism, strengthening Party building along the CPC's ideological lines by linking political threads with Chinese characteristics, such as in the united front and the armed struggle.This led to the launch of the rectification movement, opposing subjectivism, sectarianism, the eight principles of the Party, and a unified understanding throughout the Party based on the combination of Marxism-Leninism and the concrete practice of the Chinese revolution.
3) Mao Zedong Thought was formally confirmed as the guiding ideology of the whole party.
The Seventh National Congress of the CPC was the most important Party Congress during the democratic revolution. That conference summarized the historical experience of the tortuous development of Chinas democratic revolution over a twenty-year period, formulated the correct program and strategy, overcame erroneous ideas within the Party, and unified the understanding of the entire Party on the basis of Marxism-Leninism and Mao Zedong Thought. It reached an unprecedented level of unity within the Party. That Congress laid the foundation for the victory of the new democratic revolution in China. The new Party constitution adopted at the conference also officially and solemnly stipulated that the CPC, as the symbol of Marxism-Leninism and the practice of the Chinese revolution, was a guide for Mao Zedong Thought and all his work. That is to say, Mao Zedong Thought had by this stage developed and matured as a guiding ideology that was recognized by the entire party. The Party achieved unprecedented unity and solidarity that was founded on Marxism-Leninism and Mao Zedong Thought. Since the Zunyi Conference, throughout the period of the Anti-Japanese War, the Party's thinking gradually unified from the level of loose unity to that of complete reunification, finally coalescing in Mao Zedong Thought, which reflected the objective principles of the Chinese democratic revolution. It was precisely because the whole Party acted in accordance with Mao Zedong Thought - that is, the objective principles of the Chinese democratic revolution - that the Party's ranks were neat and their pace completely in step, so that their strength would equal that of any enemy. In this way, the leaders of hundreds of millions of people were able to persist in the eight-year-long War of Resistance, which brought unprecedented development to the revolutionary forces of the CPC and the people as they cooperated with the anti-fascist wars waged by the people of the Soviet Union and other countries, finally culminating in the defeat of the Japanese aggressors. If we say that all the revolutionary struggles of the Chinese people over the previous century had suffered setbacks and defeats, then we must acknowledge that the War of Resistance Against Japanese Aggression was different, and that the Chinese people finally achieved victory. This was due partly to the more favorable conditions in the international and domestic arenas than had been seen before, and partly to the CPC's correct application of these favorable conditions under the guidance of Mao Zedong Thought, which allowed them to overcome any unfavorable conditions. Mao Zedong Thought led to the great victory in the War of Resistance Against Japanese Aggression and laid a solid foundation for the victory of new democracy in China.
2.	The Victory of the New Democratic Revolution and the Expansion of the New Democratic Theory
After the victory of the War of Resistance and the founding of the new China, under the guidance of Mao Zedong Thought, the people of the entire country carried out a fierce, massive scale war of liberation, overthrew the reactionary rule of the Kuomintang, and established the people's democratic dictatorship over the new China, bringing all these endeavors to great success. The transformation of Chinese society from new democracy to socialism ushered in great achievements in socialist transformation and construction, which enabled Mao Zedong Thought to develop further in many areas.
a. Using Revolutionary Force to Defeat Counter-Revolutionary Force 
Faced with a complicated situation after the victory in the War of Resistance Against Japanese Aggression, the CPC estimated that the influence of various factors both domestically and internationally would create a situation in which China's social and political reforms could be carried out in a peaceful manner, while at the same time speculating on the possibility that another situation might arise. In other words, it held that after the CPC took the steps to enter peaceful negotiations, the Chiang Kai-shek faction might launch a counter-revolutionary civil war, a natural outcome of that faction's class nature. For this reason, it was made clear that the two arms of the revolution should overcome the two counter¬revolutionary arms. This would enable the CPC to seize the opportunity to fight for peaceful, legitimate struggles when the conditions of the first possibility arose, in order to win the support of the masses and the sympathy of the centrists. At the same time, if the second set of conditions arose, the Party would be fully
prepared to meet the KMT's military offensive, and there were sufficient reasons to believe the KMT would expose the Chinese people to the crime of destroying peace and launch a counter-revolutionary civil war, which explained why it was necessary for the CPC to overthrow the Chiang Kai-shek government and establish a new China by means of a revolutionary war. The two-handed strategy of the revolutionaries would not only keep the Party clear-headed and with a vigorous, fighting spirit, but would ensure it was prepared to relax the defensive war, being bound by a desire for peace, and make the Party's struggle more flexible and always political. The active position, as much as possible, would fight for the masses in the middle, completely isolating the small reactionary faction led by Chiang Kai-shek and depriving him of an excuse to launch a civil war.
b. The Transition from Strategic Defense to Strategic Offense and the Development of the Ten Military Principles
Given the disparity between the enemy forces and the Chinese People's Liberation Army, how could the latter defeat the attacks of Chiang's troops? How could such an offensive be overcome? The Central Committee of the CPC, headed by Mao Zedong, had clearly addressed the major questions concerning the success or failure of the Chinese revolution. He stated, "We must not only must defeat General Chiang, but we are also able to do so. Thus, the Central Committee correctly formulated and realized a strategic defense plan to defeat Chiang and determined that, after it was successfully launched, at the right time, they would turn to a strategic offense. At the end of December 1947, at a meeting of the Central Committee, Mao noted emphatically that the main force of the PLA had already reached KMT-held areas. This was a turning point in history, the turning point in fact, that prevented Chiang Kai-shek's twenty-year counter-revolutionary rule from developing further and brought it to extinction. It was also the turning point that brought about the eradication of more than one hundred years of imperialist rule in ChinaT In a push to allow the PLA to completely eliminate Chiang's reactionary army and finally gain national victory, Mao systematically proposed the Ten Military Principles of the People's Liberation Army. These principles were proposed during the transition from the strategic defense phase to the strategic offense phase of the People's Liberation War, offering not only a high-level summary of the long-term experience of the PLA, but also the scientific foresight of the war process and its development trend. Using these military principles, the PLA not only shattered Chiangs troops' mad attack on liberated areas, but also triumphantly shifted from strategic defense to a strategic offense, until the time that a decisive strategic battle could be fought.
C. The Development of the Land Reform Movement and the Consolidation and Expansion of the People’s Democratic United Front 
During the nationwide War of Liberation, the Central Committee, under Mao's leadership, launched a land reform movement of unprecedented scale to further consolidate the alliance of workers and peasants. At the same time, based on the alliance of workers and peasants led by the working class, they united and strove for everything that could be won. Not only the national bourgeoisie, but also all the patriots who had been divided by the ruling KMT group, had among them many enlightened gentlemen who had separated from the feudal landlord class. This enabled the people's democratic united front to see unprecedented growth and consolidation, while the Chiang Kai-shek faction had fallen completely into isolation and helplessness. In May 1948, the CPC proposed to convene a political consultation meeting without the reactionaries, at which they would discuss the call for the establishment of a democratic coalition government. This proposal immediately received enthusiastic responses from democratic parties, people's groups, and non-partisan democrats. They sent representatives to the liberated areas and worked with the CPC to prepare for the new government. At the height of the strategic decisive battle of the PLA, the democratic parties announced their agreement with the CPC's industrial, commercial, and land reform policies. The group recognized that the reactionary rule of the KMT was the root cause of the counter-revolutionary civil war and the fundamental obstacle to domestic peace and democracy, further pointing out that American imperialism was the enemy of the Chinese people. They jointly issued a public statement announcing the abandonment of the middle line and accepting the leadership of the CPC. This was a major victory for the CPC in its appropriate handling of relations with the bourgeoisie. In September 1949, the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference was officially named as the specific organizational form of the Chinese people's democratic united front. Through this meeting, the CPC formulated a common program to unite the people of all democratic classes and peoples across 
the country into this organization in an effort to complete the great historical task of finally overthrowing the reactionary rule of the KMT and establishing the Peoples Republic of China. At this point, the people's democratic united front against imperialism, feudalism, and bureaucratic capitalism "developed to the point of establishing a country led by the working class and founded on an alliance of workers and peasants."
d. Recognizing the Party’s Ranks and Strengthening and Improving Party Leadership
Throughout the War of Liberation, the Central Committee, under Maos leadership, always regarded the issue of Party building as a central link in the success or failure of the revolution and adopted effective measures to do so. On the one hand, the Party movement was carried out and the Party's rural grassroots bodies reorganized. Strengthening the centralized, unified leadership of the Central Committee enabled the Party, government, and leading military organs to achieve a high degree of unity in the implementation of policies and discipline, while also paying attention to perfecting the Party's committee system, carrying forward the democratic traditions within the Party, and carrying out democratic movements within both the Party and the military. In this way, the work of the Party's grassroots organizations and leading organs of the Party at all levels had been strengthened and improved, further consolidating and developing the ideological, political, and organizational unity achieved by the entire Party at the Seventh National Congress. Political unity and unity within the leadership had truly guaranteed the victory of the national revolution.
e. The Party’s Strategy for Struggle in KMT-ruled Areas and Policy of Taking and Managing Cities 
During the nation-wide War of Liberation, the CPC-led mass struggle in KMT- ruled areas saw unprecedented developments, forming a truly important front behind the lines held by the Chiang Kai-shek faction. Primarily, the opening and development of a second front worked strongly alongside the PLA to shatter Chiang's invasion of liberated areas. This, coupled with the strategic offensive and defensive battles and the strategic pursuit of the PLA, constituted an effective cooperation between the CPC and the people. The PLA protected and took over Central cities where the enemy had long been entrenched. This was the continuation of the work guidelines and struggle strategies of the New Democratic theory for the White Area.
f. Theories and Policies on the People’s Democratic Dictatorship and the Transition from New Democracy to Socialism
The people's democratic dictatorship was the link between the lowest level and highest level of programs of the CPC and the political condition for the transition from a new democracy to socialism. It was both a regime of a new democratic nature and one that could be smoothly transformed into the dictatorship of the proletariat. This transformation could and should be done under peaceful conditions. There was no need, for instance, for an overthrow of the reactionary regime through violent revolution, as Russia had done in the February Revolution and October Revolution. Because the reactionary power of the KMT had been destroyed by the revolutionary war, the newly established people's democratic dictatorship in China, whether during the period of the new democratic revolution or during the socialist revolution, was the people's regime led by the working class and based on the alliance of workers and peasants. When shifting to the socialist revolution, the workers and peasants would certainly not rise up to overthrow their own power. This was another new development of the Communist Party of China under the leadership of Mao Zedong, based on the fundamental principles of Marxism-Leninism regarding the armed seizure of power. Mao specifically pointed out in his summation of the Party's experience that there was a single focal point, which was that the democratic dictatorship of the people (via the Communist Party) must be united with international revolutionary forces?" This was the Party's formula, as well as its main experience and program. It could only rely on the people's democratic dictatorship as a weapon to unite all the people in the country, with the exception only of the reactionaries, and steadily move toward its goal. 
CHAPTER 4
The Basic Principles of the New Democratic Revolution
I.	The Party’s Understanding of Modern China’s National Situation
1.	The Concepts of "Semi-Colonialism" and "Semi-Feudalism"
In modern Chinas history, the country found it had become a semi-colonial, semi-feudal society, and this was the defining feature of its national situation. This being the case, it was determined that the revolution had to be carried out in two steps, employing armed struggle in rural areas and encircling the cities. Mao Zedong said, "Only by recognizing the nature of Chinese society can we recognize the objectives, mission, power, and nature of the Chinese revolution, along with its future and transformations." For this reason, "recognizing the nature of Chinese society, which means recognizing its national conditions, is the basic foundation for recognizing all revolutionary issues."
In 1921, one of the major tasks of the CPC was to establish the Party and determine its nature. At this time, Chinese Communism had not yet gained a deep understanding of Chinas national conditions, particularly its revolution. It was only through analysis of the overall situation of revolution throughout the world after the victory of the October Revolution that the Party came to realize that Chinas own socialist revolution had to rely on the proletariat as the main force. In the year following the founding of the CPC, through the study and mastery of Marxism and the practice of revolutionary struggle, the Party began to gain a better understanding of the international and domestic situation and the social conditions in China. At the beginning of 1922, the CPC participated in the First Congress of the Comintern and the National Revolutionary Groups of the Far East, hosted by the Comintern, and there accepted Lenins theory on the issues of national colonies. On June 15,1922, the Central Committee of the CPC published The CPC’s proposals on the Current Situation.
This document focused on the analysis of the history and current condition of international imperialism and the Chinese feudal warlords after the 1911 Revolution, pointing out that China was a "semi-feudal state" under the authority of imperialism internationally and feudal warlords and bureaucrats on the domestic front. Based on further analysis of the nature of Chinese society, the Declaration of the Second Congress of the CPC clearly proposed for the first time a democratic revolutionary program against imperialism and feudalism. After the Second National Congress, the CPC con¬tinued to explore the nature of Chinese society. In 1923, Chen Duxiu mentioned the concept of "semi-colonialism" in his article "The Chinese National Revolution and Social Classes." He believed that the revolution of semi-colonial countries held the dual significance of an external national revolution and the internal democratic revolution. The independence of the economy and the freedom of internal political affairs were part of the peculiar nature of the national revolution in semi-colonial countries. The Declaration of the Third Congress of the CPC refers to Chinas democratic revolution as the "national revolution," emphasizing that "semi-colonial China" should focus its work on the national revolution, which was distinct from the bourgeois democratic revolution in European countries. That summer, Mao Zedong also used the term "semi-colonial" in the political papers of "The Beijing Coup and Merchants," pointing out that the semi-colonial political situation in China was a dual form of oppression based on the collusion between the national warlords and foreign imperialism as a means of clamping down on Chinese nationals. The historical mission of the revolution was to use the nations power to defeat the warlords and foreign imperialism. In 1926, Cai Hesen used the phrase "semi-colonial, semi-feudal China" in "The Historical Development of the Communist Party of China." It was based very precisely on an accurate understanding of the nature and revolutionary condition of modern Chinese society and the revolutionary united front the fledgling Communists Party of China and Chinese Nationalist Party had formed under the leadership of Sun Yat-sen, launching a vigorous national revolution. However, at this time, the CPC s understanding of the principles of Chinese society and the development of the Chinese revolution was not all undertaken intentionally. In the summer of 1927, the national revolution finally failed. As the representative of the KMT's New Right, Chiang Kai-shek established a new regime in Nanjing.
What sort of political power was represented by Chiang and this regime? Was there a fundamental change in the nature of China's semi-colonial, semi- feudal state? This was the issue the CPC had to resolve first in order to revive the revolution. At that time, there were many different understandings of this issue among the general public. Some said that China was still a feudal society, while others said it had already become a capitalist society, and yet others believed it was a post-capitalist society. Of course, there were also some who believed it remained a semi-colonial society. There were countless different views on the issue in circulation.
The Sixth National Congress of the CPC, held in June and July 1928, analyzed Chinese society's political and economic situation after the failure of the national revolution. It was pointed out at this meeting that, on the one hand, the real reunification of China had not been completed and China had not yet been liberated from the iron grip of imperialism. The Chinese revolution thus remained a. semi-colonial revolution. On the other hand, the private ownership system of the landlord class had not been overthrown and the final remnants of semi¬feudalism had not yet been eliminated, meaning that the nature of the current stage of the national revolution was that of a bourgeoisie-democratic revolution. In February 1929, the CPC formally provided a comprehensive concept of "semi¬colonialism and semi-feudalism" in its own writings. However, shortly after the Sixth National Congress, there was another dispute within the CPC regarding an issue that had already been fundamentally settled. Chen Duxiu and others, accepting Trotsky's misconceptions of China's issues, believed that the failure of the national revolution indicated that the bourgeoisie had won and the feudal remnants had been hit hard. The KMT's Nanjing government was led by the bourgeoisie, leaving political power in its hands. Thus, it was believed, China was already a society dominated by capitalism and would now see peaceful development. The proletariat, then, should move toward socialist revolution after capitalism had become more highly developed, and the legitimate movement could only be carried out with the "national meeting" as its central slogan. This misconception denied that Chinese society was still semi-colonial and semi-feudal, thus denying the necessity of continuing the anti-imperialist, anti-feudal democratic revolution and taking a wrong view that ultimately undermined the revolution. At the same time, some who had taken the lead in the Central Committee of the CPC were influenced by Stalin and the Comintern. They believed that the KMT right-wing rebellion against the revolution represented by Chiang Kai-shek was a rebellion of the entire Chinese bourgeoisie, and that the KMT was already a bourgeois regime. However, while opposing imperialism and feudalism, it was also imperative that the Chinese revolution oppose the bourgeoisie, even the upper levels of the petty bourgeoisie, rather than simply offering arbitrary opposition to capitalism, imperialism, and feudalism in a way that confused certain boundaries of the democratic and socialist revolutions, while the wrong views of the "leftists" led to adventurism. But whether it was the errors of the right or the left, the common feature was that they exaggerated the capitalist elements of Chinese society under KMT rule. They believed that the Chiang Kai-shek regime represented the interests of the bourgeoisie and made mistakes on the fundamental issue of the nature of Chinese society. It is worth noting that they had almost identical misunderstandings of the nature of society, but they came to two very different conclusions regarding the nature of the Chinese revolution. One abolished the national democratic revolution, while the other sought to transcend it. From this, it is evident that a correct understanding of the nature of Chinese society was very important for a revolutionary party.
2.	Deepening the Understanding of China's National Conditions and the Debate on the Nature of Chinese Society
Just as the CPC had conducted new explorations on a series of issues such as the nature of Chinese society and of the Chinese revolution, some members of the literati inside the KMT also frequently published articles on the nature of Chinese society. Tao Xisheng was one representative. Writing many articles in 1928 and 1929, he said on some occasions that modern Chinese society was no longer a feudal society under imperialist rule, and that the relationship between the scholar-officials and the peasants during the period before capitalism had fully developed was mainly a socialist social structure. On other occasions, he said that Chinese society was still basically a feudal system, but a late-stage feudal society. In capitalist terms, he viewed it as a pre-capitalist society. The upshot of such vague, contradictory statements regarding the nature of Chinese society was to cause confusion in an effort to oppose the Agrarian Revolution led by the CPC, which was then booming.
It was in this context that the controversy concerning the nature of Chinese society occurred. The debate lasted from the late 1920s to the mid-i93os, a ten-year period. The focus of the debate extended from the nature of Chinese society to its history, and to the nature of Chinese rural society. Under the direct leadership or influence of the CPC, Chinese Marxist theorists and progressive social scientists actively engaged in this huge debate. They analyzed modern Chinese society and the Chinese revolution from Marxist-Leninist standpoints, views, and methodologies. Refuting all sorts of misconceptions, especially the views of Tao Xisheng and the Trotskyists, they preliminarily demonstrated the semi-colonial, semi-feudal nature of Chinese society. They stressed that, in order to understand the nature of the Chinese revolution, it was first necessary to distinguish the economic structure and special nature of Chinese society. The untenable views held by Tao Xisheng and other Trotskyists regarding the nature of Chinese society were obstacles to the Chinese revolution. On the one hand, the aggression of imperialism hit Chinas rural natural economy hard, causing the Chinese economy to start to develop toward capitalism. On the other hand, imperialism and Chinese feudal forces colluded to exhaust all other forces, hindering the development of the Chinese national capital, and the bankrupting of national industry became a common phenomenon at that time. In China, semi- feudal relations thus continued to hold a comparative advantage. Their arguments were only preliminary, but in the current debate regarding the nature of Chinese society, it basically made clear that Chinese society was still semi-colonial and semi-feudal, the result being that this scientific argument of the CPC spread among the masses through the current debate, having a far-reaching significance.
In December 1939, The  Chinese Revolution and  Chinese Communist Party, co-authored by Mao Zedong, Zhang Wentian, and Li Weihan, marked the highest achievement of the Party on this front. It documented and analyzed the feudal society that had endured for more than 3,000 years in China, since the days of the Zhou and Qin Dynasties. It stated, "Since the Opium War of 1840, China has gradually become a colonial, semi-colonial, semi-feudal society. In the Japanese occupied area, China still remains a colonial society. In the KMT-ruled area, it is essentially a semi-colonial society. In both the Japanese occupied area and the KMT-ruled areas, it is a society dominated by feudalism or semi-feudalism. This is the current nature of Chinese society. It is the current national situation in China.
It was no accident that modern Chinese society evolved from a complete feudal society into a colonial, semi-colonial, and semi-feudal society. This social change came about through a long, slow, complicated process. Understanding this not only helped develop a deep understanding of the nature of modern Chinese society, but also aided in generating a correct assessment and understanding of the role of foreign capitalism in China over the previous century.
The book The Chinese Revolution and the Chinese Communist Party analyzed the evolution of two aspects of modern Chinese society. First was the process of Chinas evolution from a complete feudal society to a semi-feudal society. The other was its evolution from an independent, sovereign state into a semi-colonial society. These two historical processes took place in the same time and space. The book argued that the main cause of this evolution was the intrusion of foreign capitalism. "The result of the imperialist powers' invasion of China was, on the one hand, to prompt the disintegration of Chinese feudal society and promotion of capitalist factors, turning China from a fully feudalist society to a semi-feudalist society. But at the same time, they ruled China brutally, turning an independent China into a colonial and semi-colonial state.
What role, then, did foreign capitalism play in promoting Chinas evolution from a complete feudal society to a semi-feudal society? The book argued, "Foreign capitalism has greatly disintegrated Chinas social economy. On the one hand, it undermines the foundation of Chinas self-sufficient natural economy and destroys the handicraft industries in the city and the cottage handicraft industries of the peasants. On the other hand, it promotes the development of both the rural and urban commodity economy." Regardless of the destruction of the natural economic foundation, or of Chinas urban and rural areas, the development of the commodity economy had created conditions for the emergence and development of the Chinese bourgeoisie. However, because the imperialists controlled Chinas economic lifeline and its politics, Chinas national capital, which had emerged after the middle of the previous century, was under extremely difficult conditions, preventing it from growing normally. It had always "not become the main form of Chinas social economy" and had not brought China into a Capitalist society. It was not only marginalized by foreign capital with various privileges, but was also unable to resist the pre-capitalist system of exploitation that still dominated Chinese society. In this way, modern Chinese society had changed its historical direction of development, gradually evolving into "a weak capitalist economy and a serious semi-feudal economy. At the same time, some modern industrial and commercial cities and stagnant rural areas co-exist" as semi-feudal societies. 
However, the above changes were just one aspect of the social changes that occurred in modern China. The book went on to say, "The purpose of the imperialist powers' invasion of China was not to turn feudal China into capitalist China. Quite to the contrary, in fact, their goal was to turn it into colonial and semi-colonial China. "If the promotion of the development of Chinese capitalism and making China a semi-feudal society was not the original, conscious intention of the imperial powers, it is certain that turning China into their colony and placing it in an arbitrarily demeaning status that ultimately slaughtered the nation was. Marx and Engels pointed out in The Communist Manifesto ". The need to continuously expand the market for products and drive the bourgeoisie all around the world must be settled everywhere. This business must be established everywhere, and contacts must be made in every place." With cheap commodities, it could destroy "every single Great Wall." Just as it subordinated rural areas to urban areas, it subordinated uncivilized and semi-open states to countries, subordinated peasant nations to bourgeois nations, and subordinated the East to the West. In order to conquer China, a vast, powerful nation, over the previous century, the imperialist powers had tried their best to take a variety of measures and approaches.  The Chinese Revolution and the Commnunist Party of China combined the previous century's history of Sino-fbreign relations into a summary of ten modes of imperialist aggression and oppression against China, viewed from the perspective of military, political, economic, cultural, and diplomatic relations, noting that the imperialists had "turned feudal China into a bloody picture of China in a semi-feudal, semi-colonial, and colonial world.
From this we understand that the imperialist powers' invasion of China, on the one hand, prompted the disintegration of China's feudal society, prompting 
China to develop certain capitalist features and turning it from a. feudal to a s^mi- feudal society. On the other hand, these powers ruled China cruelly, turning an independent nation into a colonial and semi-colonial nation. Combining these two aspects together, Chinese colonial, semi-colonial, and semi-feudal society developed the following characteristics:
a.	Its natural economic foundation for self-sufficiency in the feudal era was destroyed. Despite this, the foundation of the feudal exploitation system, the exploitation of the peasants by the landlord class, was not only retained, but was further combined with the exploitation of the comprador and usury capital, which had a clear advantage in Chinas social and economic life.
b.	National capitalism had developed somewhat, and played a significant role in China’s political and cultural life. Even so, it had not become the main form of Chinas social economy, and it remained weak and, for the most part, connected to foreign imperialism and domestic feudalism.
c  The authoritarian regimes of the emperors and nobles were overthrown and replaced by the rule of warlord bureaucrats at the landlord level and the dictatorship of the landlord class and upper bourgeoisie coalition at higher levels. In enemy occupied territory, Japanese imperialism and its humiliating rule remained in place.
d. Imperialism not only manipulated China’s financial and economic lifeline, but also manipulated China’s political and military power. In enemy-occupied areas, everything was under the monopoly of Japanese imperialism.
e. Because Chine was under the rule or semi-rule of many imperialist countries, and because China had long been in a state of disunity , and its land was so vast, China’s economic, political and cultural development were extremely unbalanced. 
F Due to the oppression of imperialism and feudalism, especially the massive attacks of the Japanese imperialists, the Chinese people, particularly the peasants, were increasingly impoverished and even bankrupted.The people were hungry and cold, and they lived without any political rights. The degree of poverty and suffering of the Chinese people at that time reached unprecedented levels. 
These were the characteristics of colonial, semi-colonial, and semi-feudal Chinese society. The situation had mostly been determined by the forces of Japanese imperialism and domestic feudalism.
Mao Zedong repeatedly emphasized that only by recognizing the nature of Chinese society could the Party recognize the nature and tasks of the Chinese revolution and distinguish the objectives and motives of the Chinese revolution in order to foresee the future and transformation of the Chinese revolution. In short, it was only by recognizing the social nature of China that the basic laws of social development in modern China could be grasped and the series of basic problems faced by the Chinese revolution be correctly and scientifically solved. From that time on, Mao Zedong repeatedly discussed the semi-colonial, semi-feudal nature of modern Chinese in New Democracy and other publications.

The “Two Stages” of the Chinese Revolution
1.	Initial Understandings and Deficiencies of the Principles of the Chinese Revolution
The concept of the two-stage revolution divided the Chinese revolution into two distinct stages, the democratic revolution and the socialist revolution. Mao stated, "The first step is to change this colonial, semi-colonial, semi-feudal society into an independent democratic society. The second step is to move the revolution forward and build a socialist society. In the course of history, this strategic thinking was elevated to a level of perfection, but only after undergoing an extremely torturous process. In fact, whether this strategic thinking could positively recognize and interpret the situation not only affected the practice of the Chinese revolution, but also directly affected the development of the CPC's revolutionary theory.
After the founding of the CPC, the basic principles of Marxism-Leninism were wielded as a tool to observe the destiny of the country, which initially answered the questions encountered in the course of the Chinese revolution. At the Second Congress of the CPC in July 1922, in its scientific analysis of the international and domestic situations and the nature of Chinese society, the Party concluded that imperialism and feudalism were the main enemies to be confronted at that time. It was imperative, then, to overthrow the rule of imperialism and feudalism if the democratic revolution were to be accomplished and in order for the victory of the socialist revolution to even be possible. According to this line of reasoning, the Congress proposed for the first time in a declaration a thorough anti-imperialist, anti-feudal democratic revolutionary program - namely, by eliminating civil strife, defeating warlords, building domestic peace, overthrowing the oppression of international imperialism and achieving the complete independence of the Chinese nation, and unifying the Chinese headquarters (including the three eastern provinces under its umbrella) to form a true democratic republic. The declaration of the Congress once again reaffirmed the Party's supreme program, as "organize the proletariat, use class struggle, establish the dictatorship of the proletariat, eradicate the private property system, and gradually reach the state of a communist society." Closely related to the formulation of the democratic revolutionary program of the Chinese revolution was the Party's Declaration at the Second Congress of the CPC, which insisted on the notion of a two-step strategy. The Declaration at the Second Congress of the CPC pointed out that the struggle of the proletariat had to be divided into two stages. The first was "to help the democratic revolutionary movement," and the second "to implement the 'dictatorship of the proletariat' among the poor peasants." It stated, "If the proletarian organizations and combat forces are strong, the second step of the struggle can succeed immediately after the victory of the democratic revolution."^ The Declaration held that the revolution should be divided into two stages, with the proletariat first striving to complete the bourgeois democratic revolution. Compared with the idea of directly engaging in the socialist revolution in China, this was a major step forward and played a role in promoting the Party and encouraging the working class to join the democratic revolution. However, the Declaration failed to clarify the relationship between the democratic and proletarian revolutions. Although the Declaration pointed out that "Workers are under the severe oppression of Chinese and foreign capitalists, so the revolutionary movement will develop itself The result of this self-development will create the revolutionary leader that will see the world's capitalist imperialists overthrown in China. " However, the basic understanding of the Declaration was that the proletariat was merely "assisting" and "helping" the democratic revolutionary movement. Of course, this "assistance" and "help" are "not the proletariat surrendering to the bourgeoisie." It was, rather, "a necessary step to prevent the extension of the feudal system and to develop the true power of the proletariat."The Declaration held that "the democratic revolution has succeeded, the proletariat has gained freedom and rights," and "the childish bourgeoisie will continue its rapid development and clash with the proletariat." At this point, it would be necessary for the proletariat to carry out "the second struggle." Regarding this issue, Chen Duxiu went further in 1923, stating, "The proletariat likewise knows this sort of democracy. The success of the revolution is indeed the victory of the bourgeoisie. However, the naive proletariat has the opportunity only to gain certain freedoms and expand its abilities in this struggle for victory. For this reason, cooperation with the revolutionary bourgeoisie is also the only way for the Chinese proletariat." He continued, "Under normal circumstances, the victory of the national revolution is naturally the victory of the bourgeoisie," and "it is natural for the bourgeoisie to hold political power." What the Declaration was lacking was later developed by Chen Duxiu as The Second Revolutionary Theory, which became the theoretical basis for right-wing error within the Party.
The Fourth National Congress of the CPC, held on January 11-22,1923, dis¬cussed the question of the relationship between the democratic and socialist revo¬lutions -which is to say, the future of the Chinese revolution. The Fourth National Congress stated that the future of the Chinese revolution was a non-capitalist revolution, a point originally included in the draft resolution, but eventually deleted after further discussion. However, compared with the conclusions drawn by the Second National Congress, the Fourth National Congress had deepened its effects toward addressing the question of what two steps needed to be taken. First, it was basically clear that the proletariat must bear the responsibility of leadership in the Chinese revolution. It was pointed out that "Chinas national revolutionary movement must have the strongest participation of the majority of the proletariat, which must take leadership if victory is to be gained."" The second question was whether the bourgeoisie could assume power after the victory of the democratic revolution. These two points were interrelated. Taking them together, the clear conclusion could be drawn that the democratic revolution led by the proletariat was not a capitalist revolution. Yet, the resolution of the Fourth National Congress remained ambiguous. It stated, "Whether the victory of the nationalist revolution can be followed by the proletariat revolution is determined by its passage through the bourgeoisie-democratic system and to what extent the proletariat has prepared during its own national revolution and to what degree the social conditions of the time are fixed. The global political situation at that time will also have a great influence on domestic circumstances." Here, the question of the connection between the victory of the democratic revolution and the proletarian revolution was obviously different from the view of that relationship contained in the "second revolution theory." However, this expression only raised questions about the stage of capitalism between the democratic and socialist revolutions, particularly the question of whether it was necessary to go through a bourgeois democratic system at all, with the proposal that it depended entirely on the circumstances. In other words, it did not rule out the possibility of a capitalist future. At the same time, the Fourth National Congress did not offer concrete answers concerning how to achieve the leadership of the proletariat, and especially how to properly handle the complex issues in the struggle for leadership among the bourgeoisie. Further, the extremely important questions of political power and armed struggle remained, and there was not sufficient knowledge to address them. These weaknesses were gradually manifested in the later development of the revolutionary movement.
Despite the events leading up to and following the Fourth National Congress, some Marxist thinkers within the Party, such as Deng Zhongxia, Zhou Enlai, Li Dazhao, Mao Zedong, Liu Shaoqi, Qu Qiubai, Yun Daiying, Cai Hesen, and Xiao Chunu, had published articles in which, under the guidance of Marxism, they offered criticism from various angles. The right wing of the Kuomintang and Chen Duxius erroneous theories analyzed the economic status and political attitudes of various classes of Chinese society, studying the practical issues and characteristics of the Chinese revolution and actively exploring the basic laws of the Chinese revolution. For example, Deng Zhongxia pointed out in his article "Several Important Issues in the Labor Rehabilitation Period," published in May 1925, "The proletariat participates in the national revolution and is not affiliated with the bourgeoisie, but participates in the purposes of its own class. Therefore, we in the national revolution should premise our acts on the interests of our own class." Mao Zedong published two articles in response, "Analysis of Chinese Social Classes" in the October 1925 issue of Revolution and "An Analysis of Various Classes of Chinese Peasants and their Attitudes toward the Revolution" in Chinese Peasanrts in January 1926, and in March he published "The Reasons for the Separation of the Kuomintang's Right-Wing and the Future of the Revolution" in Political Weekly and "An Analysis of Various Classes of Chinese Society" in China Youth In these articles, based on the Marxist class analysis system, he analyzed the various classes of Chinese society, expounded the tasks, objectives, leadership, motivation, and future of the Chinese revolution, and put forward the basic ideas of the new democratic revolution. However, these correct opinions were not dominant among the Party's leadership at the time. Until the end of 1926, the "second revolution theory" was still the main view espoused by the majority, which meant voluntarily giving up or not striving for the leadership of the proletariat and the Communist Party in the revolution, constituting a right¬wing error at the crucial moment of the revolution and ultimately leading to the failure of the first revolution.
2.	Strategic Conception of the "Two Step" System
At the end of 1926, the Resolution on Chinas Situation, adopted by the Seventh Expanded Meeting of the Comintern Executive Committee stated, "Although the current nature of the revolution is, at this stage in history, still that of a bourgeois civil rights movement, it must take on the nature of a wide range of social movements. The Chinese revolution will not necessarily result in a socio¬political environment that will promote the development of capitalism. The process of the Chinese revolution is set in an era of the decline of capitalism, which means a complete struggle to eliminate capitalism and build socialism. In part, the structure of the revolutionary state will depend on its class foundation. This revolutionary state will not be a purely bourgeois civil rights state, but will become a civil dictatorship of the proletariat, peasants, and other exploited classes. It will serve as a transition to non-capitalist (socialist) development during the period of the revolutionary anti-imperialist government."^ It was further declared that "the Communist Party of China has decided to put forth all efforts to achieve the future transition to a revolution for a non-capitalist government."^ The Comintern had thus highlighted the "non-capitalist future" of the Chinese revolution for the Communist Party of China.
From the end of 1926 to the beginning of 1927, the Politburo of the Central Committee of the CPC discussed the convergence of the two stages of the Chinese 
revolution and produced an intra-party document entitled "The Interpretation by the Central Politburo of the Resolution on China Passed by the Comintern Seventh Congress." The Politburo of the Central Committee of the CPC accepted the instructions issued by the Executive Committee of the Comintern, reviewed the mistakes of the "second revolutionary theory," and explained the international directions.The Politburo believed that the Central Committees past understanding of the Chinese revolution "contained a fundamental error," which was "a big gap between the nationalists and proletarians that was 'impossible to transcend by mere human strength.'If the national and proletarian revolutions were completely separated into two unconnected stages and the old framework employed for the practice of revolution, it would be tantamount to "discarding the national revolution." According to the directives from the Comintern, and based on Chinas internal and external conditions, "The development of the Chinese revolution surpassed the democratic revolution of the bourgeoisie. The success of the national revolution under the leadership of the proletariat of course does not necessarily lead to the development of a political environment of capitalism, but creates a political environment of non-capitalism (socialism) from one of capitalism moving toward socialism." Further, the correct approach was to "regard the national and proletarian revolutions as a whole Chinese revolution," and "grasp the link between these two revolutions and join them as a single, solid chain" which was "not subjectively doomed or fated to have a second phase of revolution, or to be preparation for a second revolution."
This interpretation offered by the Politburo officially disavowed the mistake of cutting off the relationship between the democratic and socialist revolutions as espoused by the earlier "second revolutionary theory," organically linking the issue of the leadership of the proletariat to the question of the two revolutionary stages and viewing the national and socialist revolutions as a whole without considering the question of how to generate non-capitalist development. In this, it was correct. However, this interpretation also included the notion that the democratic and socialist revolutions could be accomplished "in one go" without "preparing for a second revolution," which was wrong. This demonstrated that the Central Committee had not yet affirmed the differences and links between the two stages of the Chinese revolution, nor had it yet found the correct path to achieve a non¬capitalist future. 
The "one revolutionary view" confused the nature and the boundaries between the stages of the democratic and socialist revolutions and attempted to complete the two revolutionary tasks in one step, reflecting an eagerness for leftist tendencies. But at the same time, it contained valuable ideas that were
later proven to be true. Specifically, it held that the proletariat must establish the power of the workers and peasants after the democratic revolution and seize the highest form of economic power from the imperialists, warlords, bureaucrats, and compradors, securing power for the proletariat. There would be only one stage in the revolution. The Chinese democratic revolution would not be like the French Revolution, where the bourgeoisie took power. In short, the future of the Chinese revolution was socialism, not capitalism. This indicated theoretical progress for the CPC. However, at that time, the erroneous aspects of the "one revolutionary theory" became increasingly prominent and continued to develop, forming a "leftist" error that simultaneously eliminated the bourgeoisie from the democratic revolutionary stage. After 1927, Qu Qiubai, Li Lisan, and Wang Ming, without exception, made the mistake of adopting the error of the "one revolutionary theory" in their own theories concerning the relationship between the democratic and socialist revolutions. The leading organs of the Central Committee had caused serious harm to the revolutionary cause.
During the Agrarian Revolutionary War, Mao Zedong pointed out in his article "The Struggle in Jinggangshan" the error of believing in the existence of an "inevitable revolution" and the Party's desire to skip the bourgeoisie civil rights revolution. "China is still in the bourgeois civil rights revolution stage of its own revolution," he writes. "The program of Chinas complete civil rights revolution includes the overthrow of imperialism and complete national liberation, the elimination of the comprador class in the city, the completion of the land revolution, the elimination of rural feudal relations, and the overthrow of the warlord government. We must go through just such a civil rights revolution before we can create a real foundation for the transition to socialism." From there, Mao went on to demonstrate the economy of the policy for the Red region issued by the Second National Workers, Peasants, and Soldiers Congress held in January 1934. He says, "The principle of our economic policy is to carry out all possible and necessary economic construction, concentrate economic power to supply the war, and at the same time strive to improve the lives of the people, consolidate the economic union of workers and peasants, and ensure that the leadership of the proletariat goes to the peasants. Striving for the leadership of the state-owned economy will lead to the development of socialism in the future." But at the same time, most of Maos thought was triggered by the correct guidance of the Comintern, Marxism-Leninism, and the Chinese revolution. The preliminary results of the combination of concrete, actual circumstances and Mao's concept of the "two stages" of the Chinese revolution were still in their infancy and the early stages of formation.
However, in order to "take the work a step further," it was necessary to "further the great cause of combining the universal truths of Marxism-Leninism with the concrete practice of the Chinese revolution." After the anti-Japanese war came to a stalemate, the CPC's struggle on the ideological front was intense. The KMT diehards advocated that recognizing the Three People's Principles required a rejection of Communism. Though they were dissatisfied with the leadership of the KMT and the unsuitable state of the war efforts, some representatives of the national bourgeoisie still had their doubts about the CPC's proposition and the future of the War of Resistance Against Japanese Aggression. They attempted to find a political path that was in accord with the political views of the KMT and CPC, in hopes of establishing a Euro-American-style bourgeois republic in China. In the CPC and the revolutionary ranks, some people lacked understanding of the theories and policies of the Chinese revolution. For this reason, the task of explaining the Party's views of the Chinese revolution to the entire Party and the people of the whole nation was a serious challenge facing the CPC leadership. Mao's systematic research and exposition on the "two step" Chinese revolution was carried out in-depth under the conditions described above. In Tan an, Mao did a great deal of theoretical research on this issue, systematically summing up the positive and negative experiences of the Chinese revolution, concentrating on the Party's wisdom, and writing The Communist Party Reader, The Chinese Revolution, New Democracy and other works. The advent of these works marked the systematic formation of the "two step" strategy of the Chinese revolution. 
III
The Nature and Basic Characteristics of the New Democratic Revolution
In order for a colonial or semi-colonial country to attain socialism, it first had to pass through democracy. This was a difficult and complicated proletarian path. Socially, the democratic revolution was bourgeois in nature, so why must a proletarian revolutionary movement take this as a first step in these countries? If after the victory of the proletariat-led democratic revolution, they failed to enter socialism, then what would their future be? If its direct future was not socialism, then why was socialism considered the inevitable direction of the new democratic revolution? These were some of the issues that the new democratic theory had to address and answer. The scientific clarification of these issues constituted the basic principles of the new democracy.
I. The Basic Implications of the Nature of the New Democratic Revolution
The new democratic revolution was a bourgeois democratic revolution in nature, not a proletarian socialist revolution. In The Chinese Revolution and the Communist Party of China, Mao Zedong raised the question of what type of revolution it was at that stage. Was it a bourgeois democratic revolution or a proletarian socialist revolution? Obviously, it was the latter, not the former. On the basis of his thorough understanding of the nature of Chinese society, Mao pointed out that because Chinese society was still colonial, semi-colonial, and semi-feudal, and because the main enemies of this revolution were colonialism and feudalism, and because the task of the Chinese revolution was to overthrow the national and bourgeois revolutions of its two main enemies, that meant that in the revolution waged by these two main enemies, even if the bourgeoisie betrayed the revolution and became its enemy, the main revolutionary blade would still not be turned toward capitalism and the domination of private ownership of property, but toward imperialism and feudalism, meaning that the nature of the current Chinese revolution at the time was not proletarian socialism, but bourgeois democracy. However, the current bourgeois democratic revolution in China was no longer the old-style bourgeois democratic revolution, which was outdated, but a new type of special bourgeois democratic revolution. This revolution was developing in China and in all colonial and semi-colonial countries at that time. This type of revolution was called a "new democratic revolution." This new democratic revolution was part of the world s proletarian socialist revolution, and it was resolutely opposed to imperialism and international capitalism. Politically, it was under the leadership of several revolutionary classes for the imperialists and traitors and against the bourgeois dictatorship of Chinese society. Economically, it accepted the large capital enterprises of the imperialists and traitorous reactionaries into the state, distributed the land to the landlord level of peasants, preserved the general private capitalist enterprises, and did not abolish the peasant economy. For this reason, on the one hand, this new type of democratic revolution cleared the way for capitalism, while on the other, it created the preconditions for socialism. The current stage of revolution in China was to end a transitional period between colonialism, semi-colonialism, and semi-feudalism and a socialist society. This was the revolutionary process of a new democracy.
So, when did this process begin? Mao believed it began only after World War I and the Russian October Revolution, and that it began in China with the May 19th Movement of 1919. The so-called new democratic revolution was the anti-imperialist, anti-feudalist revolution of the masses under the leadership of the proletariat. It was necessary for Chinese society to go through this revolution before it could further develop into a socialist society. Without doing so, it would be impossible for development to continue. Mao aptly pointed out that Chinas new democratic revolution was very different from the historical democratic revolutions in Europe and America. It would not result in the dictatorship of the bourgeoisie, but a dictatorship of the revolutionary classes under the leadership of the proletariat. In the War of Resistance Against Japanese Aggression, the anti¬Japanese democratic regime established in the various anti-Japanese bases under the leadership of the CPC was the political power behind the Anti-Japanese National United Front. It was neither a dictatorship of the bourgeoisie nor a dictatorship of the proletariat. It was a dictatorship in which several revolutionary classes united under the leadership of the proletariat. As long as they were in favor of the anti-Japan and pro-democracy camps, regardless of party or faction, they all had a right to participate in the regime. On the other hand, this new democratic revolution was also different from the socialist revolution. It would only overthrow the rule of imperialism and the traitorous reactionaries in China, but not destroy any capitalist elements that could still participate in the anti¬imperialist, anti-feudalist movements.
Mao emphasized that this new democratic revolution was basically consistent with Sun Yat-sen's revolution as stated in the Three People's Principles he had advocated in 1924. Sun said in the Declaration of the First National Congress of the Chinese Nationalist Party issued that year, "The so-called civil rights system in countries around the world is often driven by capitalism, and possession of this system, often unique to the bourgeoisie, is a tool suited to oppressing civilians. If the KMT's civil rights are to be shared by the general public, they cannot be the private possession of a minority." He went on, "All enterprises of foreign nationals and foreigners may have an exclusive nature, or may not be able to do so because of the power of private power, such as banks, railways, and routes. The capitalist system cannot manipulate the livelihood of the people, which is the key to controlling capital." Sun also pointed out in his will that "the fundamental principle of internal affairs and diplomacy must arouse the masses and unite people of the world, and I am waiting for them to fight together." All these aspects of the old democracy were adapted to the old international and domestic environment. The Three People's Principles were transformed into a new democratic theory and its new Three People's Principles adapted to the new international and domestic environment. The CPC issued a declaration on September 22, 1937, stating that "The Three People's Principles are necessary for China today, and the Party is ready to fully realize them."The term "struggle" here refers to this sort of Three People's Principles, not some other sort. This type of Three People's Principles were based on Sun Yat-sen's original principles, specifically the Three People's Principles of the Soviet Union, the Communist Party, and the support of agricultural and industrial policies. In the new international and domestic conditions, the Three People's Principles were something of a departure, and were not the revolutionary Three Party's Principles. This would make the Chinese revolution a bourgeoisie democratic revolution, regardless of its struggle (the united front) or its national composition. The status of the proletariat, the peasant class, and other members of the petty bourgeoisie could not be ignored. Who wanted to open China's proletariat? The peasant class and other members of the petty bourgeoisie could not solve the fate of the Chinese nation or any problems in China. The democratic republic in China's current revolution must include workers, peasants, and the urban petty bourgeoisie among its ranks, and a democratic revolution would play a particular role in a particular position. In other words, it would be a democratic republic of a revolutionary coalition of workers, peasants, the urban petty bourgeoisie, and all other anti-imperialist and anti-feudalist elements. The ultimate completion of this republic could only be possible with the leadership of the proletariat.
2.	Basic Characteristics of the New Democratic Revolution
On the basis of a thorough understanding of the nature of the new democratic revolution, the Party systematically summed up the basic characteristics of this revolutionary nature and further deepened the understanding of the new demo¬cratic revolution.
a.	The New Democratic Revolution as “Part of the Worldwide Proletarian Socialist Revolution” and the “Allied Army of the World Socialist Revolutionary Front”
In the process of making a thorough, careful analysis of the historical characteristics of the new democracy, the CPC pointed out that as long as it continued to make careful study of the development of China and the rest of the world, it would understand the historical characteristics of the new democracy not just as it had formed since the Opium War, but also its later formation after the first imperialist war and the Russian October Revolution. Mao once again clearly emphasized the nature of Chinas current society, saying that its colonial, semi-colonial, and semi- feudal nature made it necessary for the Chinese revolution to be divided into two steps, and that the first step was to change the colonial, semi-colonial, and semi-feudal society, making it an independent society, while the second step was to move the revolution forward and make it a socialist society. Chinas revolution was currently taking the first step.
The preparatory phase for this first step had begun with the Opium War in 1840, when Chinese society first began to change from a feudal society to a colonial, semi-colonial, semi-feudal society. The Taiping Rebellion, the Sino-French War, the Sino-Japanese War, the Reform Movement of 1898, the Revolution of 1911, the May 4th Movement, the Northern Expedition, the Agrarian Revolutionary War, and the on-going War of Resistance Against Japanese Aggression were just many individual steps, spanning about a hundred years. At some point, the first step had been implemented, then the Chinese people had continued to advance that first step to varying degrees, opposing imperialism and feudal forces in order to establish an independent democracy and struggling to complete the first revolution. The Revolution of 1911 launched this revolution in a more thorough¬going sense. According to its social nature, this revolution was a bourgeois democratic revolution, not a proletarian socialist revolution. Though it had not yet been completed, the revolution had expended a great deal of energy, primarily because the enemy of this revolution remained, even up to this point in time, a very powerful enemy. In reference to this sort of bourgeois democratic revolution, Sun Yat-sen said that "the revolution has not been successful and comrades must still work hard."
However, the Chinese bourgeois democratic revolution had changed since the first imperialist world war broke out in 1914, with the Russian October Revolution of 1917 having now established a socialist country that covered one-sixth of the earths land. Before this, the Chinese bourgeois democratic revolution belonged to the category of an old-world bourgeois democratic revolution, and thus was an old style of revolution suited to that world. After this, the Chinese bourgeois democratic revolution moved to a new category of a new-style democratic revo¬lution, and on the revolutionary front, it was part of the world proletarian socialist revolution. The most direct cause of this change, as Mao pointed out, was that the first imperialist world war and the first victorious socialist revolution, the October Revolution, had changed the direction of world history and moved history into a new era. In this era, the world capitalist front had collapsed in one corner of the earth (and this corner accounted for one-sixth of the land on the planet), while in the remaining corners, it had fully displayed its decadence. In this era when the remnants of capitalism had to rely on colonialism and semi-colonialism for its survival, socialism had been established and had declared its willingness to fight for all movements for liberation from colonialism and semi-colonialism. During this period, the proletariat in each capitalist country was steadily escaping the influence of the Social Democratic Party of social imperialism, announcing its support for colonial and semi-colonial liberation movements. In this era, if opposing the imperialists, which was to say, if engaged in revolution against the international bourgeois and international capitalism, any colonial or semi-colonial country would no longer belong to the old world bourgeois democratic revolution but to the new category. It was no longer part of the old world revolution of the bourgeoisie and capitalism, but part of the new world revolution, specifically, proletarian socialism.This revolutionary colonial and semi-colonial nation could no longer be regarded as an allied army of the world capitalist counter-revolutionary front, but changed to the allied army of the world socialist revolutionary front.
In the first stage of this colonial and semi-colonial revolution, though the first step was still largely of a bourgeois democratic social nature, there remained an objective requirement for clearing the way for the development of capitalism. It was not an old revolution led by the bourgeoisie to become a capitalist society under a bourgeois dictatorship, but was led by the proletariat, the first phase in the establishment of a new democracy. It was society and the revolution that were needed for establishing a dictatorship of the various revolutionary classes. For this reason, this revolution was precisely for the purpose of clearing the broader path for the development of socialism. In its progress, this sort of revolution was divided into several stages because of the changes in the enemy's situation and in the Allied forces, but its basic nature remained unchanged. This kind of revolution was a complete blow to imperialism, so it was not allowed by imperialism, and was in fact completely opposed by imperialism. By contrast, it was allowed by socialism and was aided by the socialist state and the international proletariat. For this reason, this kind of revolution could not be made a part of the worldwide revolution of the proletarian socialist world. In New Democracy , Mao reviewed the proposed process by which "the Chinese revolution is part of the worldwide revolution." He wrote that the proposition "the Chinese revolution is part of the world revolution" was correctly put forward during China s first great revolution from 1924 to 1927. It was proposed by Chinese Communists and was approved by all those who participated in the anti-imperialist and anti-feudal struggle at the time. However, the significance of this theory had not yet been fully asserted, so the people were only vaguely aware of the issue. Mao Zedong said that this "worldwide revolution" was no longer an old-world revolution. The old bourgeois worldwide revolution had long since ended. It was now a new worldwide revolution, a socialist revolution. This was a great change, unparalleled in global history and in Chinese history.
Mao Zedong also spoke in particular about the accuracy of the proposition proposed by the Chinese Communists, saying, "It is based on Stalins theory." In 1918, in order to commemorate the first anniversary of the October Revolution, The October  Revolution  and the Nationalist  Issue was published in which Stalin said, "The worldwide significance of the October Revolution is mainly i) that it expands the scope of ethnic issues, bringing the struggle against national oppression from Europe to make it a global issue of liberation for all oppressed nations, delivering colonial and semi-colonial countries from imperialism; 2) it has opened up vast concrete possibilities for the liberation, greatly promoting the liberation of countries in both East and West and attracting them to the radical anti-imperialist struggle; and 3) it was thus in the socialist West and enslaved East that a bridge was set up to establish a new revolutionary front against world imperialism from the Western proletariat through the Russian Revolution to the oppressed nations of the East. After this article, Stalin repeatedly played a role in discussing the colonial and semi-colonial revolution from the perspective of the old category and transforming it into a theory of the proletariat socialist revolution. The clearest explanation Stalin offered came in 1925, in an article published on June 30 entitled "Re-examining the National Problem," in which he argued against the Yugoslavian nationalists at that time. Thus, there were two worldwide revolutions, the first belonging to the bourgeoisie and to capitalism. The time for this sort of revolution had long ago passed, being at the end of the first imperialist world war in 1914, and particularly during the time of the October Revolution in Russia in 191/. From then on, the time had come for a second worldwide revolution, the revolution of proletarian socialism, which began with the proletariat of the capitalist state and the oppressed nations of the colonial and semi-colonial allies, regardless of in which oppressed nation, whatever kind of class, party, or individual was involved in the revolution, whether they knew it or not, and regardless of whether or not they understood it subjectively. As long as they opposed imperialism, their revolution would become part of the worldwide proletarian socialist revolution. In the face of the rapid development of the Chinese revolution, Mao Zedong said, "Today, due to the economic and political crisis of capitalism that dragged the world day by day into a Second World War, it is only in the Soviet Union that it has arrived by socialism." In the transitional period, Communism was capable of leading and assisting the proletariat and oppressed nations of the world, resisting the world of imperialism and combating the reaction of capitalism. The proletariat in various capitalist countries was preparing to defeat capitalism and realize socialism. At a time when the Chinese proletariat, peasant class, intellectuals, and other petty bourgeoisie under the leadership of the Communist Party of China had formed a greater independent political force, should it not be assumed that the Chinese revolutions significance to the world was even greater? Mao believed it should be. He held that the Chinese revolution was a great part of the worldwide revolution. The first stage of the Chinese revolution (which was divided into many small stages) was in nature a new-style bourgeois democracy. The doctrine of the revolution was not that of proletarian socialism, but it had early on become part of the worldwide revolution of proletarian socialism, and it had now become a great part of this world revolution and become a great allied force within it. The first step and first stage of the revolution were by no means a capitalist society for the dictatorship of the Chinese bourgeoisie, but a new democratic society with the dictatorship of Chinas revolutionary classes under the leadership of the proletariat. It must first complete the initial phase, then it would develop to the second stage of building a socialist society in China. This was the most basic feature of the current Chinese revolution. This was the new revolutionary process over the previous twenty years (starting from the May 4th Movement in 1919), and it was the vivid, concrete substance of the Chinese revolution of that time.
b.	The  Rise of the Proletariat’s Leadership in the Chinese Revolution after the May 4th Movement (1919)
Mao Zedong pointed out that before the May 4th Movement in 1919, the political leaders of the bourgeois democratic revolution were the Chinese petty bourgeoisie and the bourgeoisie (meaning, their intellectuals). After the May 4th Movement, although the Chinese national bourgeoisie continued to participate in the revolution, the political leaders of the Chinese national bourgeoisie democratic revolution were no longer a part of the Chinese bourgeoisie, but of the Chinese proletariat. There were two reasons for this. First, the preparatory stage of the Chinese democratic revolution had begun after the Opium War, while the bourgeoisie-led Revolution of 1911 "began the revolution in a more thorough¬going sense." The Revolution of 1911 overthrew the imperial system, established the Republic of China, and achieved many other notable things. However, it simply drove away an emperor and hung out a signboard reading, "Republic of China," while the nation still remained under the oppression of imperialism and feudalism and the anti-imperialist, anti-feudalist task was left uncompleted. The reason the Chinese bourgeoisie could not accomplish the mission entrusted to it, as the bourgeoisie in Europe and America had historically done - particularly the French bourgeoisie - was mainly that they were "economically and politically weak." This weakness was formed during the process of China becoming a semi-colonial, semi-feudal society. It was "the old problem born of its mother," and it was a weakness that was difficult to overcome. Because of this weakness, they often compromised with the enemies of the revolution. Chinas national bourgeoisie "even in the revolution remained unwilling to completely split with imperialism, and they were closely related to land rent and exploitation in the countryside, and were even more reluctant to completely overthrow the feudal forces." Further, "in this way, the two basic problems of the Chinese bourgeois democratic revolution, its two basic tasks, could not be resolved." As for China's upper bourgeoisie, represented by the Kuomintang, over the long period from 1927 to 1937, they constantly colluded with the imperialists and feudalists, opposing the People s revolution. In the War of Resistance Against Japanese Aggression, part of this group, represented by Wang Jingwei, publicly surrendered to the Japanese aggressors, "representing a new rebellion by the upper bourgeoisie." In short, "on the one hand, there was the possibility of participating in the revolution, and on the other, the compromise with the revolutionary enemy. These are the two faces of the Chinese upper bourgeoisie.This duplicitousness was the fundamental reason the Chinese bourgeoisie could not lead the Chinese revolution to victory. On the other hand, the development of the revolutionary movement required and always found new leaders. Just as the Chinese bourgeoisie was defeated, the Chinese working class, which had matured, finally entered the stage of Chinas political struggle after the May 4th Movement. Although the Chinese working class had its weaknesses and shortcomings, it was the most progressive, most promising, and most combative class in Chinese society. Thanks to its organizational discipline, its natural connection with the peasants, and especially its pioneering team, the leadership of the CPC, the Chinese working class, without hesitation had taken the responsibility of leading the Chinese national revolution. Therefore, Mao said, 'After the May 4th Movement, although the Chinese national bourgeoisie continued to participate in the revolution, the political leaders of the Chinese bourgeois democratic revolution are no longer a part of the Chinese bourgeoisie, but of the Chinese proletariat."^ It can be seen that the change in the class of the leadership in the course of Chinas democratic revolution was the inevitable result of historical development and the choices made by history. Thus, the revolutions before and after the May 4th Movement, though both bourgeois democratic in nature, displayed "important differences." After the May 4th Movement, under the leadership of the Chinese proletariat and its political parties, and under the guidance of Marxism-Leninism, the Chinese democratic revolution quickly took on a new look. It was not only in the breadth and depth of the revolution, but particularly in the completeness and thoroughness of it, which was far different from before the May 4 th Movement. Its political, economic, and cultural programs were all very different from the earlier versions. They not only fulfilled the established task of the Chinese bourgeois democratic revolution, but also created the preconditions and conditions for the next socialist revolution. It was in these senses that Mao Zedong called the democratic revolution before the May 4th Movement "the old-style general bourgeois democratic revolution," which was to say, the old democratic revolution. After the May 4th Movement, he termed it "a new-style special bourgeois democratic revolution," or the new democratic revolution.^ For this reason, we can say that the change in the leadership class was the most important change in the development of Chinas democratic revolution. The leadership of the proletariat had become the most important feature of the new democratic revolution in China.
C. The Ultimate Future of the Chinese Revolution Socialism and Comminism not Capitalism
The question of the future of the Chinese revolution was also a question of the relationship between the Chinese bourgeois democratic and the proletarian socialist revolution and of the relationship between the current and future stages of the revolution. At the National Congress of the CPC held in Yan'an in May 1937, Mao Zedong said in response to questions about the future of the Chinese revolution that the bourgeois democratic and the proletarian socialist revolutions were like "two articles, the first and the next. If the first is done well, the next can be done well too. Resolutely leading the democratic revolution is a condition for winning socialism."^ He said, "We are the agents of revolution," and "we advocate the transformation of the democratic revolution toward socialism," but that could only be when the time was right. Mao criticized the Trotskyists' "permanent revo¬lution" theory that had caused harm to the Chinese revolution, along with tailism, adventurism, and a tendency toward radical revolution, calling on the Party to recognize the future of the revolution and the tasks at hand, and to work hard at those tasks. He said, "The current efforts aim at the big goals of the future. If you lose sight of this big goal, you will not be a member of the Communist Party. In the same way, anyone who relaxes in the tasks at hand is not a member of the Communist Party." Later, in The Chinese Revolution and the Chinese Communist Party, New Democracy, and other works, Mao expounded on the ideas mentioned above more comprehensively and systematically, and the relationship between the democratic and socialist revolutions was summed up in an extremely succinct manner, and the question of Chinas future was given a clear answer.
Mao pointed out that since the Chinese bourgeois democratic revolution at this stage was not an old-style general bourgeois democratic revolution but a new-style special revolution, and because Chinas revolution was set in the new international environment of the 1930s and 1940s- that is, an environment of rising socialism and declining capitalism - and in the era of World War II and the revolution, then the ultimate future of the Chinese revolution was not capitalism, but socialism and communism. There was no doubt about this. Mao believed that since the current Chinese revolution was to change the status of the current colonial, semi-colonial, and semi-feudal society, which meant it was to complete a new democratic revolution, then after the victory of the revolution the obstacles on the development path would have been eliminated and a considerable degree of development would be attainable in Chinese society. This was not only imaginable, but also not surprising. There would be a considerable degree of development toward capitalism, which was the inevitable result in an economically backward China after the victory of the democratic revolution. But this was only the result of one aspect of the Chinese revolution, not its final result. The overall result of the revolution would be, on the one hand, the development of capitalist factors, and on the other, the development of socialist factors. What were these socialist factors? Mainly, the growth of the proportion of proletarian representation in the Communist Party and in the country s political leadership - that is, peasants, intellectuals, and the urban petty bourgeoisie, who have or may recognize the leadership of the proletariat in the Communist Party, or the Democratic Republic. The state economy and cooperative economy of the working class were likewise factors of socialism. The advantage of the international environment would determine the final result of the Chinese bourgeois democratic revolution, avoiding a future of capitalism and realizing a future of socialism. These were truly great possibilities.
This demonstrated that the relationship between the democratic and socialist revolutions was in fact the relationship between the present and the future. Their differences reflected the particularity of contradictions, while their links reflected the identity of the contradictions. The Chinese revolution was a complex contradiction that contained two such revolutionary stages. Faced with this situation, the CPC had to "recognize the difference between the democratic and socialist revolutions, while at the same time recognizing the connections between the two, in order to correctly lead the Chinese revolution."
In short, as far as the international front was concerned, the new democratic revolution was the allied army of the world s proletarian socialist revolution, not allied with the worlds bourgeois revolutions. In terms of revolutionary leadership, the new democratic revolution was led by the proletariat, rather than by the bourgeoisie. In terms of the future of the revolution, the future of the new democratic revolution was socialism, not capitalism. These were the main features of Chinas new democratic revolution. 
CHAPTER 5
The General Direction of the New Democratic Revolution
I  The Formation of the Party’s Analytical View of China’s Social Class Structure 
1.	A Correct Analysis of the Tasks of Various Social Classes
After the First National Congress of the CPC, the national and domestic political crises were deepening. The Party concentrated its efforts on launching and leading the workers' movement, and actually carried out the struggle against imperialism and feudalism, leading to rapid development of the revolution. However, there were great differences in social and political views, with an abundance of viewpoints expressed, including calls for a "unification with force," "provincial autonomy," and "good governance. "The basic issues of the enemy, the motivation, the mission, and the nature of the revolution still needed to be clarified, all of which had to be based on a correct understanding and analysis of the various classes of Chinese society.
The Partys Declaration of the Second National Congress of the CPC (referred to hereafter as the Declaration) made an initial analysis of the bourgeoisie, the peasantry, the petty bourgeoisie, and the working class. It pointed out that the inexperienced bourgeoisie must rise up against imperialism in order to relieve the economic oppression of the imperialists and the feudal warlords. The peasantry was divided into three groups: wealthy peasant landowners, independent peasants, and tenants and agricultural laborers. The first was the smallest group, with the second and third accounting for about 95% of the peasantry. Oppressed and exploited, they had to rise up to fight, which constituted the "biggest factor" in the revolution. The petty bourgeoisie was numerous, and their lives were hard, with a noticeable rise in unemployment. This class was bound to join the revolution. The working class, "being under the extreme oppression of Chinese and foreign capitalists," would develop its own revolutionary movement and become the "great power" of the revolution, ultimately "leading the revolutionary army" against imperialism and feudalism. Based on the above analysis, the Declaration classified the feudal warlords and imperialists as enemies of the revolution, while the working class, peasants, petty bourgeoisie, and bourgeoisie were classified as revolutionary forces. It clearly proposed the overthrow of the oppression of imperialism, the defeat of the political power of the warlords, and the formulation of revolutionary democratic parties. In this way, during this period defined by political disagreement, the basic issues of the objects, motivation, tasks, and nature of the revolution were clarified for the first time.
At the Third National Congress, the Party passed the significant Resolution of the Third National Congress of the CPC (referred to hereafter as the Resolution), based on the analysis of the economic and political conditions of society and of the peasantry and working class. Focusing on the bourgeoisie and the KMT) it held that i) the middle class was at odds with imperialism and the warlords. The Resolution divided the bourgeoisie into big businessmen (i.e., chaebols) and the middle class, pointing out the opportunism of the big businessmen and bureaucrats. The middle class was plundered by imperialism, which occupied the market and took away raw materials, nearly cutting off Chinas "development possibilities" altogether and turning its businesses to "uneven development."The rule of China was by "feudal warlords, not the bourgeoisie," and "the majority of the middle class" was politically oppressed. Therefore, "there must be conflict with international imperialism and the warlords." 2) Pointing out that of Chinas political parties, only the KMT was a national revolutionary party, it noted the difficulty of building a larger, more revolutionary party than the KMT, given the current situation of all classes of society. 3) The bourgeoisie "tended to feel content with its status quo" and "depended on the imperialist powers or warlords, subject to making compromises and selling out the civilians." The KMT also made the mistake of having illusion about imperialism and warlords, concentrating on military operations and being divorced from the people. The Resolution not only analyzed the revolutionary side of the bourgeoisie and KMT, but also offered initial analysis of its compromises and its non-revolutionary aspects. On this basis, a decision was made to cooperate with the KMT, thus formulating the Party's basic strategic policy regarding the democratic revolution. Although the Revolution was influenced by the Communist International and Chen Duxiu's right-wing thinking that the KMT was the "central power" and "leader" of the revolution and it had come to a wrong understanding of the issue of revolutionary leadership, the Third National Congress of CPC decided on the strategic direction of building a united revolutionary front line, which demonstrated that the Party had made a new leap in its own understanding.
During this stage, Chen Duxiu published three articles, entitled "Theories on Nation Building" (September 1922), "The Bourgeois Revolution and the Revolutionary Bourgeoisie" (April 1923), and "The Chinese National Revolution and the Social Classes." (December 1923). These articles were an important part of the Party's class analysis and understanding of the period. They shared three characteristics in their analysis of various classes of society. The first was that they pointed out that imperialism and the feudal warlords had always been enemies of the revolution. The second characteristic was that the articles divided the bourgeoisie into three groups, the revolutionary bourgeoisie, the counter¬revolutionary bourgeoisie, and the non-revolutionary bourgeoisie. It pointed out that the emerging industrial and commercial workers were in favor of the revolution because the development of enterprise was hindered by imperialism and warlords, while the bureaucratic bourgeoisie had attached itself to the warlords and imperialists, and so opposed the revolution. The lives of small industrialists and merchants were uneasy, due to the small scale of their enterprises, and thus they remained neutral toward the revolution. The third characteristic of the three articles was that they analyzed both the advantages and shortcomings of the peasantry and working class. They pointed out that the peasantry accounted for the majority of Chinas population, and because of the looting of imperialism and the feudal bureaucrats, it was at least possible that they would join the revolution, forming the greatest revolutionary force. Without the participation of the peasantry, the democratic revolution would not succeed. However, the peasantry was scattered, not concentrated, uncultured, and conservative. In particular, self- employed farmers had a strong concept of privacy, and they opposed the landlords. "They cannot transcend the psychology of transferring private ownership of the landlords to their own private rights," Chen wrote. It was for this reason that it would be difficult for the farmers to join the revolution. The working class was "an important element" in the democratic revolution, and "its revolutionary tendency was greater than that of the bourgeoisie," so the small number of workers who had real class and political consciousness were the "bravest vanguard" in the revolution. However, some of the workers' minds continued sluggishly in the patriarchal society. The clans local views were strong, and they had not left behind their superstitions and theocratic monarchs. Workers who possessed political consciousness were "too few in number." If the working class were merely carrying out a simple economic struggle, it was of "no major significance," as only a political struggle directly against imperialists and warlords would be of great significance. These analyses offered by Chen Duxiu played a positive role in the Party's analysis of the various classes of society.
However, Chen's class analysis had a wrong view of the right. This was mainly manifested in the wavering, compromising, non-revolutionary, and even counter-revolutionary aspects of the new industrial and commercial bourgeoisie. Without proper analysis, the affirmation of the merits and status of the working class was thoroughly inadequate. For this reason, based on the overall estimation, the bourgeois force was erroneously considered to be greater than the proletariat. The working class and peasantry were inferior to the bourgeois revolution, and the leader of the national revolution was not the proletariat, but the bourgeoisie. This resulted in a wrong conclusion of "two revolutions,'" and it caused serious fundamental errors in Chen's work, later leading to his rightist opportunism.
From this, it can be seen that the Party had begun to analyze the various classes of society. On the basis of its preliminary understanding of the economic conditions and political attitudes of these various classes, the boundary between the revolutionary objectives and revolutionary power was drawn, and the Party's democratic revolutionary program and strategic direction were set. However, the working class and peasantry had been underestimated, while the bourgeoisie had been overestimated, so the Party was still unclear about the issue of who their allies were, resulting in a right-leaning view on the issue of revolutionary leadership.
2.	The Initial Development of the Party's Class Analysis
The establishment of the cooperation between the Kuomintang and the Communist Party of China had pushed the revolution into a new stage of development. In the united front, the class relationship between the proletariat and the bourgeoisie was highlighted. The fundamental problem of this relationship lay in who was leading the revolution. The CPC had yet to develop a correct understanding on this issue. There were, at this point, two erroneous tendencies. The leftist tendency was that the proletarian faction wanted to engage in a Soviet-style proletarian revolution, rather than having to lead a bourgeois revolution. The rightist ten¬dency was to think that the bourgeois democratic revolution should be led by the bourgeoisie. In fact, both recognized that the bourgeoisie was leading the national revolution. In order to correct these two misunderstandings and clarify the leadership position of the proletariat in the democratic revolution, the Party conducted a good deal of class analysis.
On December 26,1923, and in November 1924, Deng Zhongxia published two articles, entitled "The Situation of the Chinese Workers and Our Movement" and "The Power of the Chinese Working Class," both of which focused on analysis of the working class. The articles pointed out that the emergence and development of modern Chinese industry and the birth and growth of the working class illustrated the historical status of the working class and new modes of production. He first observed "Chinas proletariat has formed a strong, great team because of the progress of industry over the past thirty or forty years. When turning around, it could launch a 'betrayal'of imperialism and a counterattack on it."The power of the proletariat could then be "proved" and would not be difficult to be "anticipated" in the future, according to Deng, as "it will ultimately be the greatest force of the Chinese revolutionary movement." No one could deny its "leadership status." His second observation was not only to point out the advantages at the level of the workers, but also to point out their shortcomings, while continuing to focus on the revolutionary nature of the working class. Deng noted that the Chinese workers were cheap laborers for foreign capitalists. They worked long hours, "never seeing the sun," receiving low wages as an average income "amounting to mere cents," acting as a "beast of burden" for the sake of others. For this reason, the consciousness of the working class was determined by its oppressed, plundered position. "It would thus be wrong to deny the awakening of its awareness because of its patriarchal and feudal mentality." The third observation came in the form of a summary of the experiences and failures of the February 7th general strike and its full affirmation of the historical role of the working class. Deng pointed out that after the February 7th strike failed, it had been said that "the masses of workers have the status of the main force both in the democratic revolution and in the socialist revolution." For this reason, he said, "we should be extremely optimistic." He criticized some people who were overly skeptical about the power of the working class, pointing out that, simply because of a minor setback, they thought this path unreasonable and another preferable, but that the latter would never succeed.
Through his analysis of the proletariat, Deng Zhongxia clearly put forward the issue of the proletariat s leadership of the revolution, saying, "The leader of China s future socialist revolution is of the proletariat, and they are also the leader of the current national revolution." He added, "Only with the leadership of the proletariat can there be a national revolution."
In December 1924, Peng Shuzhi published an article entitled "Who is the Leader of the National Revolution?" In it, he divided the bourgeoisie into three parts - the bank bourgeoisie, the commercial bourgeoisie, and the industrial bourgeoisie. He said that the bank bourgeoisie was "by necessity counter¬revolutionary." Within the commercial bourgeoisie, the comprador class was "against the revolutions fascists," and the local bourgeoisie was devastated by the various oppressions of the imperialists and warlords. They needed a revolution, but "there is no possibility of them leading other classes." The industrial bourgeoisie was in great conflict with the interests of the imperialists, and its development was hindered by the warlords. "They need the revolution," but "their economic foundation is weak," and "they lack power." For this reason, "there are many counter-revolutionaries among Chinas bourgeoisie. Revolution is already a difficult task for the bourgeoisie, so hoping that they will lead the national revolution would amount to daydreaming." The article went on to analyze the working class and peasants, pointing out that the working class was directly oppressed and exploited by imperialism and the warlords. Because it was more severely oppressed than any other class, its understanding of the imperialists and warlords was clearer and deeper than theirs.This was simply an objective condition and root cause for the working class to be able to shoulder the leadership of the Chinese national revolution. "The Chinese working class is naturally the leader of the national revolution."The peasantry would likewise be revolutionary, but it could only be led by other classes. The article held that the leader of the revolution was the proletariat, not the bourgeoisie. This was accurate, as the working class was naturally in a position of leadership in the revolution, and the bourgeoisie was naturally incapable of providing revolutionary leadership. This, then, abolished the struggle for leadership between the proletariat and bourgeoisie, relaxing the vigilance on the bourgeoisie's fight for revolutionary leadership and believing that evervthing was settled. The "natural theory" on the issue of leadership was thus mistaken.
In December 1924, Chen Duxiu also published an article entitled "Lessons from the National Movement Over the Past 27 Years." In it, he stated that the proletariat was the most uncompromising revolutionary class. It was the main force not only in the social revolution, or the national revolution, but was also its "supervisor."
The articles written by Deng Zhongxia, Peng Shuzhi, Chen Duxiu, and others showed that the CPC had numerous people carrying out class analysis. Moreover, their articles had one thing in common, which was the clear suggestion that the leader of the democratic revolution was not the bourgeoisie, but the proletariat, providing a broad ideological basis for the Party's confirmation of the "leadership of the proletariat" at the Fourth National Congress.
In January 1925, the Fourth National Congress passed the Resolution on the National Revolutionary Movement. Through the analysis of various social classes, the key issue of the leadership of the proletariat was clearly stated for the first time in a Party resolution. This clarified the issue of revolutionary leadership that had been left unresolved at the Second and Third National Congresses, and the Party's errors at the Third National Congress were corrected.
At this stage of development, through analysis of all classes of society, the Party had clarified the question of who was leading the revolution. This marked another major development of the CPC on the basis of clarifying the objectives and motivation of the revolution, thus indicating the initial formation of the CPC's basic thinking concerning the new democratic revolution. However, at this time, the Party had not analyzed the peasant issue as the central issue of the revolution. At the same time, there was still no correct understanding of the bourgeoisie. In the beginning, the entire bourgeoisie was considered revolutionary. Now, at this stage, the bourgeoisie was considered incapable of revolution. For instance, Deng Zhongxia's article argued that "the bourgeoisie cannot engage in revolution," and Peng Shuzhi's article argued that the bourgeoisie should be encouraged to participate in the revolution. The Resolution of the Fourth National Congress considered the bourgeoisie incapable of participating in the revolution, demonstrating that the Party had not yet gained a correct understanding regarding the issue of revolutionary allies.
3.	The Party's Analysis of Social Classes Enters a Mature Stage
After the Fourth National Congress of the CPC, the revolution developed rapidly and the peasants movements in Hunan and Guangdong gained prominence, creating an air of excitement. However, after the death of Sun Yat-sen, the KMT split and the rightists began to plot to seize control of the revolution. All of this urged the Party to clarify who its allies were and bring the spirit of the Fourth National Congress into the Party's leadership by implementing proletarian leadership of the revolution. With this, the Party's analysis of all classes of society had entered a relatively complete, scientific stage of development.
From February to June of 1925, Qu Qiubai published three articles, "The Servants and the Chinese Civilian under Imperialism," "The May 4th Memorial and the National Revolutionary Movement," and "The May 30, Massacre of Imperialism and China's National Revolution." In these articles, he further clarified the issue of the necessity of proletarian leadership in the democratic revolution and addressed the implementation of the Resolution of the Fourth National Congress of the CPC.
In May 1925, Deng Zhongxia convened the Second National Labor Conference and published an article entitled "Several Important Issues in the Renaissance of the Labor Movement." In January 1926, at the reception held by the All-China Federation of Trade Unions to welcome the representatives of the Second National Congress of the Kuomintang, Deng offered a "speech" and a "response." Deng's article and speech raised the issue of "the combined worker and peasant class," expounding on the leadership position of the proletariat. He pointed out that peasants were the "natural allies of the workers." The "first" ally of the working class in the leadership of the national revolution was the peasantry. If the proletariat did not unite with the peasants, it would be impossible for them to obtain a leadership position in the revolution.
In December 1925, Li Dazhao published the article "Land and Peasants," which analyzed the many reasons why farmers were oppressed and exploited, pointing out that peasants and workers must unite to defeat the rule of imperialism and the warlord government.
These articles by Qu Qiubai, Deng Zhongxia, Li Dazhao, and others showed that, while the Party persisted in the notion of proletarian leadership, it only had a preliminary understanding of a basic issue of the centrality of the peasants to the task of realizing proletarian leadership. This issue involved the Party's recognition of its allies, which marked a new starting point in their understanding. In March 1926, Mao Zedongs article "An Analysis of the Various Classes of Chinese Society" developed this understanding to a new level. The main features of the article were:
1)	The bourgeoisie was clearly divided into the comprador and middle classes, clarifying the vague concepts and viewpoints of the past. The article listed the comprador class alongside the warlords, bureaucrat, and landlord classes as representatives of the most reactionary and backward production relations, which were connected to imperialism and hindered the development of Chinese society's productive forces. It was clear that the comprador class was an irresistibly extreme counter-revolutionary class.This article made clear for the first time that the middle class was the national bourgeoisie, and that it was economically independent, but weak, while politically it swayed between contradictory positions. This was so vivid that anyone who examined this class would find it neither completely revolutionary nor completely counter-revolutionary, but rather wavering between the workers and peasants and the imperialists and warlords. It was an unreliable ally to the revolutionaries, and in any dealings with them, extreme caution was always necessary.
2)	An extremely nuanced analysis of the petty bourgeoisie was offered in the article. It pointed out that the petty bourgeoisie included self-employed farmers, artisans, minor intellectuals, and small businessmen. The petty
bourgeoisie was divided into three groups, and a profound, vivid analysis of the characteristics of the "small" and "private" economic status of each group was offered, including items like the living conditions and political attitudes of each. It stated, "This class, because of both its numbers and its class nature, deserves great attention." This large revolutionary lower, private class was the greatest ally of the proletariat, and it must be united in leading the revolution.
3)	The article made an unprecedented scientific analysis of the peasantry. It classified the semi-self-employed, poor peasants, small handicraft workers, clerks, and hawkers as semi-proletariats. It also offered a deep analysis of the economic status and political attitudes of the semi-agricultural farmers and poor farmers. It pointed out, "The so-called peasant problem is mainly the problem of the poor peasants and semi-self-employed farmers." This was because they then made up the largest sector of the population in the countryside. When considering the peasant problems, it was necessary to first consider their problems. They were a class exploited by the landlord class's feudal rent and usury.The main objective, therefore, was to make them the main force against the feudal forces in the countryside, encouraging their revolutionary spirit to become even greater than that of the farmers. It was easy for them to take revolutionary propaganda on board, especially for poor farmers. They were the group most fundamental to the realization of the proletarian revolution. Mao's analysis of the semi-self-employed farmers and poor peasants pointed out that they were the closest allies of the revolution, and were in fact central to the Party's consideration of peasant issues, especially the semi-self-employed farmers. Mao's keen observation and scientific analysis of the peasant problem was a prominent manifestation of his combination of Marxism-Leninism and the reality of the Chinese revolution.
With the issues of the bourgeoisie, petty bourgeoisie, and peasantry clarified, the question of revolutionary allies could be seen at a glance. This was another new contribution made after the Second National Congress and the clarification offered by the Fourth National Congress distinguishing groups of revolutionary enemies and revolutionary leaders. 
During the Agrarian Revolutionary War, when Deed with the more complex situation of class struggle, the CPC, represented by Mao Zedong, further distinguished Chinese society's class relations. In October 1933, Mao formulated a relatively scientific standard for the five classes of landlords, wealthy peasants, middle class peasants, poor peasants, and workers (including peasant farmers) in the document "How to Analyze Rural Classes." After arriving in Northern Shaanxi, the CPC summed up the lessons of history and made a more systematic analysis of class relations in Chinese society. In the article "The Chinese Revolution and the Communist Party of China," Mao Zedong offered a comprehensive analysis of various groups within the petty bourgeoisie, peasant class, proletariat, and nomads outside the landlord class, capital class, and peasantry. The purpose of these scientific analyses was for the formulation of Party lines, guidelines, policies, and strategies, providing a scientific basis for the development of the Party's analysis of Chinese society's classes to a new scientific level.
11
General Direction of the New Democratic  Revolution
1.	The Party's Understanding of and Conclusions Regarding the General Direction of the New Democratic Revolution
The "general line" of the new democratic revolution was a phrase used by the CPC to refer to a concentrated summary of the strategic objectives, main tasks, and means of achieving those goals and tasks at a particular historical stage - in other words, the general direction to be taken in the revolution. It embodied the Party's ideas and served as the basic principles for the Party's actions. It was a holistic approach that set the direction, goals, and channels for the Party's overall work. For this reason, the "general line" was the lifeline of the Party, playing the important role of unifying the entire Party's thought and action and uniting the people of all ethnicities. The formulation of the Party's general direction was based on the characteristics of the times and its tasks at various stages, and was thus an important tool for the CPC, under the leadership of Mao Zedong, to lead the revolution. 
bourgeoisie was divided into three groups, and a profound, vivid analysis of the characteristics of the "small" and "private" economic status of each group was offered, including items like the living conditions and political attitudes of each. It stated, "This class, because of both its numbers and its class nature, deserves great attention." This large revolutionary lower, private class was the greatest ally of the proletariat, and it must be united in leading the revolution.
3)	The article made an unprecedented scientific analysis of the peasantry. It classified the semi-self-employed, poor peasants, small handicraft workers, clerks, and hawkers as semi-proletariats. It also offered a deep analysis of the economic status and political attitudes of the semi-agricultural farmers and poor farmers. It pointed out, "The so-called peasant problem is mainly the problem of the poor peasants and semi-self-employed farmers." This was because they then made up the largest sector of the population in the countryside. When considering the peasant problems, it was necessary to first consider their problems. They were a class exploited by the landlord class's feudal rent and usury.The main objective, therefore, was to make them the main force against the feudal forces in the countryside, encouraging their revolutionary spirit to become even greater than that of the farmers. It was easy for them to take revolutionary propaganda on board, especially for poor farmers. They were the group most fundamental to the realization of the proletarian revolution. Mao's analysis of the semi-self-employed farmers and poor peasants pointed out that they were the closest allies of the revolution, and were in fact central to the Party's consideration of peasant issues, especially the semi-selPemployed farmers. Mao's keen observation and scientific analysis of the peasant problem was a prominent manifestation of his combination of Marxism-Leninism and the reality of the Chinese revolution.
With the issues of the bourgeoisie, petty bourgeoisie, and peasantry clarified, the question of revolutionary allies could be seen at a glance. This was another new contribution made after the Second National Congress and the clarification offered by the Fourth National Congress distinguishing groups of revolutionary enemies and revolutionary leaders.
AC During the Agrarian Revolutionary Wan when faced with the more complex situation of class struggle, the CPC, represented by Mao Zedong, further distinguished Chinese society's class relations. In October 1933, Mao formulated a relatively scientific standard for the five classes of landlords, wealthy peasants, middle class peasants, poor peasants, and workers (including peasant farmers) tn the document "How to Analyze Rural Classes." After arriving in Northern Shaanxi, the CPC summed up the lessons of history and made a more systematic analysis of class relations in Chinese society. In the article "The Chinese Revolution and the Communist Party of China," Mao Zedong offered a comprehensive analysis of various groups within the petty bourgeoisie, peasant class, proletariat, and nomads outside the landlord class, capital class, and peasantry. The purpose of these scientific analyses was for the formulation of Party lines, guidelines, policies, and strategies, providing a scientific basis for the development of the Party's analysis of Chinese society's classes to a new scientific level.
II
General Direction of the New Democratic Revolution
I.	The Party's Understanding of and Conclusions Regarding the General Direction of the New Democratic Revolution
The "general line" of the new democratic revolution was a phrase used by the CPC to refer to a concentrated summary of the strategic objectives, main tasks, and means of achieving those goals and tasks at a particular historical stage - in other words, the general direction to be taken in the revolution. It embodied the Party's ideas and served as the basic principles for the Party's actions. It was a holistic approach that set the direction, goals, and channels for the Party's overall work. For this reason, the "general line" was the lifeline of the Party, playing the important role of unifying the entire Party's thought and action and uniting the people of all ethnicities. The formulation of the Party's general direction was based on the characteristics of the times and its tasks at various stages, and was thus an important tool for the CPC, under the leadership of Mao Zedong, to lead the revolution. 
The general direction and general policy of the CPC during the stage of the democratic revolution was stated thus: "The revolution must be led by the proletariat and the masses against imperialism, feudalism, and bureaucratic capitalism." This general direction had undergone long-term theoretical exploration. The continuous practice of revolutionary struggle had been basically formulated up until the War Against Japanese Aggression, and was finally completed after further supplementation and development during the War of Liberation. It should be said that the process of forming the Party's general direction for the democratic revolution was the process by which the Party gained understanding of the three elements of the general direction of the revolution - revolutionary leadership, revolutionary power, and the revolutionary objective. It was built upon the CPC's knowledge of China's national conditions and Marxism-Leninism, a rare understanding that combined theory and practice, which wound its way through a circuitous route until it finally achieved national victory.
During the Party's founding period and the period of national revolution, the CPC made preliminary explorations of the basic issues facing the modern Chinese national democratic revolution and had formed a basic idea of the new democratic revolution. During the Agrarian Revolutionary War, the Party continued to explore the fundamental issue of what kind of revolution the Chinese revolution would be. It made significant progress, enriching theory concerning the path to revolution with the "encircling the cities with armed forces," the foundation for its new democratic revolutionary theory. During the War of Resistance Against Japanese Aggression, based on the systematic summary of the experiences and lessons learned since the founding of the Party, the CPC had comprehensively summarized and expanded the theory on the new democratic revolution. In many works from this period, Mao Zedong offered profound analysis of the basic issues of the international and domestic environment of the Chinese revolution and the nature of Chinese society. Based on this, Mao offered a comprehensive exposition on the historical characteristics of the new democratic revolution and the development principles of the Chinese revolution. The new democratic theory, program, and direction were a set of principles and policies by which the revolution completely and creatively addressed a series of major issues, such as the question of what type of revolution the Chinese revolution would be In "The Chinese Revolution and the Communist Party of China," Mao offered a comprehensive, profound discussion of the objectives, tasks, nature, and future of the new democratic revolution from the combination of theory and practice, stating clearly, "The so-called new democratic revolution is the anti-imperialist, anti-feudal revolution of the masses under the leadership of the proletariat." This was the initial expression of the general direction of the new democratic revolution. After the victory in the War of Resistance Against Japanese Aggression, domestic class conflicts arose as the main conflict. A correct understanding of the nature and economic foundation of Chiang Kai-sheks regime became an urgent issue that the Party had to address. After making profound analysis of the nature of its political power and its economic foundation, Mao explicitly called the huge capital accumulated by "the four influential families" represented by Chiang Kai-shek relying on the state power as "bureaucratic capital," with the class that mastered bureaucratic capital being called the "bureaucratic bourgeoisie." Since bureaucratic capital relied on compradors, feudalists, and monopolies, "besides eliminating the privileges enjoyed by imperialists in China, the revolutionary task of the new democracy is to eliminate the exploitation and oppression by the landlord class and the bureaucratic bourgeoisie (upper bourgeoisie)." In April 1948, Mao explicitly listed bureaucratic capitalism as an object of the Chinese revolution, alongside imperialism and feudalism, in his "Speech at the Jincui Cadres' Conference," saying, "The new democratic revolution is not like any other revolution, and can only and must be led by the proletariat and the masses as a revolution against imperialism, feudalism, and bureaucratic capitalism A This was the general direction and policy at that stage of the CPC's history. This general direction correctly addressed the basic issues of the leadership, power, objectives, tasks, nature, and future of the revolution, enriching and developing Marxist- Leninist revolutionary theory.
Why did the CPC lead the people to carry out the anti-imperialist, anti- feudal democratic revolution? What was the fundamental purpose of the CPC- led new democratic revolution? Answering these questions answered important questions such as what kind of revolution the Chinese revolution was to be. As the vanguard of the Chinese working class, the CPC generated China's advanced productive forces. The new democratic revolution, led by the CPC, aimed to change the feudal production relations of the comprador class and the decaying political superstructure to fundamentally liberate the bound productive forces. Mao had engaged in numerous brilliant discussions regarding these issues.
When Mao spoke at the work conference held by the Central Publicity Department of the Communist Party of China, in March 1944, he emphasised to the cadres that there must be a correct understanding of the revolution. He pointed out that many comrades were right to put politics and the military as top priorities, because if they did not manage to destroy the enemy, there was nothing else to talk about. However, it was also important not to forget that the purpose of politics and the military was to liberate and develop productive forces. Mao said that the power of politics and the military was to overthrow the forces that hindered the development of productive forces, with the aim of liberating productive forces and developing the economy. The economy was the foundation of politics and the military, while politics and the military were superstructures. The foundation was the economy, and the fundamental aim was to develop the economy. The reason politics and the military were placed as first priority was that, without them, productivity would not be liberated, making it impossible to address any other issued Here, Mao Zedong made profound analysis of the relationship between politics, the military, and the economy, and he clarified the fundamental purpose of the CPC-led new democratic revolution.
In April 1945, Mao clearly stated in the political report of the Seventh National Congress of the CPC that the fundamental criterion for judging the quality of a political party was the standard of productivity. He said, "The role and scale of the policies and practices of all political parties in China and among the Chinese people depend, in the final analysis, on whether they help the development of the Chinese people s productive forces and on the amount of help they offer. We can see it as the liberation of productive forces. The elimination of Japanese aggressors, the implementation of land reforms, the liberation of the peasants, the development of modern industry, and the establishment of a new China that is independent, free, democratic, unified, and prosperous can only be achieved through the liberation of Chinas productive forces. This will be greatly welcome to the Chinese people."^ In December 1947, Mao developed an even clearer understanding of the issue of "The current situation and our mission" in the liberation of productive forces. He said that the most fundamental task of the new democratic revolution was to "change the feudal production relations of the comprador class and liberate the bound forces of production." In short, during the period of the new democratic revolution, the CPC s understanding of the relationship between politics, the military and the economy the purpose of the revolution, and the criteria for judging the quality of the Party were correct. In semi-colonial, semi-feudal China, it was only by carrying out the new democratic revolution and overthrowing the rule of imperialism and feudalism that the bound productive forces could be fundamentally liberated and developed. Throughout the period of the new democratic revolution, armed with just such a concept, the CPC embodied and practiced the requirements of advanced productive forces.
2.	The Objective of the New Democratic Revolution
Victory in the revolution depended on having a correct direction and strategy. The basis for the general direction lay in a clear understanding of the national conditions, and the basis of the strategy was distinguishing between friends and foes. The latter was the primary issue facing the Chinese revolution. Who was the target of the revolution? This was determined by the nature, characteristics, and major social conflicts of modern Chinese society. Since modern China was a semi-colonial, semi-feudal society, and because the main conflicts in this society were between the imperialists and the people of China and between feudalism and the Chinese masses, the object of the revolution was naturally imperialism and feudalism, along with bureaucratic capitalism.
Mao Zedong raised the question of who the friends and enemies of the revolution were. It was not easy to distinguish between friends and enemies. Thirty years of Chinese revolution had brought little success, but it was not a problem of goals, only an error in strategy. This so-called strategic mistake was that it was impossible to unite true friends to attack ones enemies if it was unclear who was enemy and who was friend. After the Opium War, the Chinese peoples struggle against imperialism and feudalism had never been interrupted. The fundamental reason for the repeated failures of these struggles was not a lack of scientific and theoretical guidance, nor was there any failing in the mobilization of the masses, particularly among the workers and the peasants. The problem was the failure to identify the friends and enemies of the revolution and formulate appropriate strategies.
Though the Taiping Heavenly Kingdom had the two characteristics of being both anti-feudal and anti-aggression, it failed to substantiate them from a theoretical perspective, and so, in practice, it was ultimately trapped in the quagmire of feudalism. The slogans and actions of the Boxer Rebellion, such has "helping the Qing Dynasty to eliminate foreign aggressors," showed that the peasants did not recognize the relationship between the feudalists and foreign aggressors. The bourgeois reformists attempted to rely on the feudal emperors to promote reform and restructuring, relying on British and American imperialists to aid and support those reforms, indicating that the reformists lacked a proper understanding of the nature of feudalism and Western powers. The 1911 Revolution overthrew the Qing government, but the fruits of the revolution finally fell into the hands of Yuan Shikai. The bourgeois revolutionaries did not explicitly oppose the imperialist program, nor did they completely oppose the feudalist program. Rather, they often used warlords to oppose warlords, and thus could not point the Chinese people to the appropriate object of the struggle.
After the founding of the Party, based on its understanding of the situation in Chinese society, the Second National Congress of the CPC clearly stated for the first time that the Party's most basic program was against imperialism and against the rule of the feudal warlords, carrying out a democratic revolution and addressing the problem of the revolutionary object, which had not previously been clarified. This pointed the way for the Chinese revolution. The Second National Congress proposed a thorough anti-imperialist, anti-feudal program and clarified the object of the revolution, marking a valuable first step for the CPC in the course of localizing Marxism in China.
a.	Imperialism as the primary target of the modern Chinese national democratic revolution
Why was imperialism the primary target of the Chinese revolution? First, it was because imperialism directly hindered Chinese economic development and political progress. Modern China was bullied by all the world s major imperialist countries. Several powerful countries had tried to monopolize China, leaving it humiliated, damaged, and slaughtered. The purpose of the imperial powers in invading China was not to turn feudal China into capitalist China, but to turn China into a colonial and semi-colonial country. Although China did not perish under imperialism, and was in fact still semi-independent, it was actually ruled by imperialism.
Second, imperialism and Chinese feudalism together oppressed Chinese people. This was due to the inevitable fact that imperialism of a backward country always maintains power over the backward country, refusing to remove that power and changing the less developed country to facilitate the aggression and oppression. In the first seven decades of modern China, under the rule of the Qing Dynasty, the imperialists turned the Qing court into a taming tool for their own use. After the Qing Dynasty was destroyed, they supported warlord bureaucrats who represented the interests of the landlord class and the bureaucratic capitalists. The feudal forces and their superstructures were able to survive because of imperialism. Finally the Chinese people opposed imperialism in order to eliminate the backing of the Chinese feudal system and complete the democratic revolution. In modern China, imperialism and feudalism were interdependent and closely connected. The imperialists used Chinese feudal forces to bully and oppress China, and the feudal forces were backed by the imperialists. Therefore, Chinas political arena was often subject to reactionary warlords and politicians, while the imperialist powers were always behind the scenes. In these circumstances, the Chinese people could only rid themselves of the shackles of the feudal system by carrying out the national revolution against imperialism, allowing the democratic revolution to be completed.
Opposing imperialism and striving for the independence of the Chinese nation was the fundamental premise for tackling the "salvation" and "development" of modern China, and it was the primary task of the revolution. It was certainly not an easy task to defeat imperialist forces that had already imposed their rule on Chinas backward society. But the experience of history proved that only by doing so could China s tragic fate be changed. That is to say, only by striving for the liberation of the nation and the independence of the nation could there be any discussion of the political, economic, and cultural construction of modernization.
Opposing imperialism remained a long-term task that ran through the entire process of the new democratic revolution. However, because of the different situations at each stage and the main target of the struggle, the main opposition to imperialism was different. The different forms of imperialist aggression and oppression of China at various stages likewise made the Chinese people s opposition to imperialism different. When the imperialists launched a war of aggression against China, the Chinese people s opposition to imperialism took the form of a national war, such as the War of Resistance Against Japanese Aggression. When the imperialists invaded China without the use of arms, including through political, economic, or cultural means, the domestic feudal army and reactionary politicians often formed alliances with the imperialists to oppress the people. In these cases, the Chinese revolution generally took the form of civil war to oppose the alliance between the imperialists and the feudalists, and to simultaneously engage the feudal forces indirectly while engaging the imperialists forces directly, such as in the national revolution, the Agrarian Revolutionary War, and the War of Liberation.
b. Feudalism as a major object of the modern Chinese national democratic revolution
Feudalism was another major target of the Chinese revolution because the exploitative feudal system was the main pillar of imperialism in China and the social foundation of the feudal warlords for implementing authoritarian rule. Although feudalism was the main cause of modern Chinas economic modernization and political democratization, it was an obstacle to the way forward for the Chinese nation.
In modern China, the landlord class controlled the grassroots political power of the vast rural areas and served as the bureaucracy of all levels of government. Many bureaucrats went to the countryside to purchase land and became landlords after seeking out the peoples wealth. By supporting and fostering feudal reactionary regimes, the imperialists gained the greatest benefit in China, while feudal reactionary regimes relied on the landlord class to achieve national rule. This was true of both the Beiyang Warlords and the Kuomintang New Army.
In modern Chinese economic life, the feudal economy took the dominant position. The exploitative feudal system was premised on the landowners' possession of land, the exploitation of the peasants' surplus labor supply and even the necessary labor supply. In the old China, landlords and rich peasants accounted for less than 10% of the rural population and 70% to 80% of the land ownership, while poor peasants, farmers, middle peasants, and other workers accounted for more than 90% of the rural population and just 20% to 70% of the land ownership. The feudal landlord class collected high land rents by renting the land to farmers. This land rent exploitation not only encroached on the peasants' total surplus labor, but also encroached on a large part of their necessary labor. In addition to cruel land rent and exploitation, farmers were also exploited by commercial and usury capital, and were crushed by the reactionary government at all levels. This situation made China's productivity level extremely low and the peoples quality of living extremely poor. Therefore, in order to realize Chinas economic modernization and political democratization, it was necessary to oppose feudalism. To do so, it was basically necessary to eliminate the exploitative feudal system economically with the landlord s land tenure being the main focal point. To politically overthrow the imperialist s agents in China and the concentrated representatives of the landlord s comprador force, feudalism. The authoritarian rule of the warlords created conditions for the liberation of productive forces and the promotion of Chinas economic modernization and political democratization.
As with the opposition to imperialism, the opposition to feudalism also ran through the beginnings of the new democratic revolution, but employing different specific content and forms at different times. During the Great Revolution, the people opposed the rule of the Northern Warlords. The Party instigated the peasants to fight the local tyrants and divide up their fields. After its defeat in the Great Revolution, the Party raised the banner of the agrarian revolution and launched the Agrarian Revolutionary War, thus truly touching on the core substantive issues of feudalism, abolishing the feudal landlord class land ownership. During the War of Resistance Against Japanese Aggression, in accordance with the changes in major domestic conflicts and the need for a united front, the Party promptly changed the land policy of the confiscation of the landlord class to a policy of reducing rents and interest rates. After the War of Liberation, the Party implemented a land system that abolished feudal and semi- feudal exploitation, implemented a land system with arable land, and eventually overthrew the superstructure of Chinese feudalism and achieved a decisive victory against feudalism.
In short, the modern Chinese revolution had the dual character of anti¬imperialism and anti-feudalism. These two aspects were inter-related. If the rule of the feudal landlords was not overthrown, the rule of the feudal landlord class could not be eliminated. Conversely, if the rule of the feudal landlord class was not eliminated and the foundation of imperialism not rooted out, the peasants could not be mobilized to form a powerful force for the Chinese revolution against the rule of imperialism. For this reason, though the two basic tasks of the national revolution and the democratic revolution were different from each other, they were linked.
c. Bureaucratic capitalism as the object of China’s New Democratic revolution
In modern times, the development of Chinese capitalism emerged in two parts that were quite different, yet related. One was bureaucratic capitalism, and the other national capitalism. Correspondingly, modern Chinas bourgeoisie was divided into two groups, the bureaucratic bourgeoisie (known as the upper bourgeoisie or comprador class) and the national bourgeoisie (known as the middle bourgeoisie or the middle class). Bureaucratic capitalism and the bureaucratic bourgeoisie were the objects of the new democratic revolution. National capitalism had always been protected in the process of the new democratic revolution, and the national bourgeoisie had been one of the driving forces of that revolution. From this, it was evident that the Chinese new democratic revolution was not always against capitalism and the bourgeoisie. Rather, it allowed and encouraged the development of national capitalism, only opposing bureaucratic capitalism. The two parts of modern Chinese capitalism and the bourgeoisie were entirely a result of imperialist aggression against China and were unique to semi-colonial and semi-feudal societies.
The opposition to bureaucratic capitalism was not because it was capitalism, but because it was a combination of Chinese feudal landlord class and old-style wealthy peasants, and because it was a form of feudal state monopoly capitalism developed by state power. This sort of state monopoly capitalism was not developed on the basis of liberal capitalism, but was caused by the political representatives of the big landlords, which was a result of super-economic plunder. It had all the characteristics of a comprador, feudal, state monopoly. It was the economic basis of Chiang Kai-sheks reactionary regime and an important factor hindering the development of social productivity in modern China. Therefore, the confiscation of bureaucratic capital and the elimination of the bureaucratic bourgeoisie became one of the focal points of the new democratic revolution.
3.	The Leadership of the New Democratic Revolution
The key issue in the new democratic revolution was the question of the leadership of the proletariat. Whether the leadership was in the hands of the bourgeoisie or the proletariat was the fundamental distinction between the old and new democratic revolutions and the touchstone for measuring the correctness of the 
partv line. The right wanted to give up leadership, while the left was lacking it. But whether right or left, there was an error in leadership, so the issue was an important one, relating to the future of the revolution and determining its success or failure.
Generally speaking, it was necessary for the bourgeois democratic revolution to be dominated by the bourgeoisie and for the bourgeoisie to take responsibility in leading the revolution. However, the Chinese revolution took place in the environment of a unique era, and it was carried out amidst a special set of circumstances. Deciding who would lead the revolution was a new issue facing the people.
Judging from historical facts, the leadership of the Chinese revolution underwent a process of transformation. Since the emergence and development of national capitalism in China in the 1870s, representatives of the bourgeoisie had indeed set off a wave of revolution and led a great struggle of far-reaching significance, including the Revolution of 1911. At that time, the proletariat was small in number and politically immature. It had not yet formed as an independent class, so only bourgeois followers participated in the revolution. This situation changed with the May qth Movement, during which the working class showed great political enthusiasm and maturity. This played an important role in allowing the proletariat to begin to enter Chinas political arena as an independent class. After the birth of the Communist Party of China, the leadership of the Chinese revolution gradually shifted from the hands of the bourgeoisie to the hands of the proletariat.
From the perspective of an ideological understanding, there was also a development process by which the issue of the leadership in the Chinese revolution was clarified. In articles published between 1923 and 1924., Qu Qiubai and Deng Zhongxia emphasized that the proletariat should occupy a dominant position in the current national revolution and must increasingly gain the leadership position in the revolution. The Resolution of the Fourth National Congress of the CPC also raised the issue of the leadership of the proletariat in the democratic revolution. However, the practice over the few years that followed showed that the CPC s understanding of revolutionary leadership had not been resolved. In 1925, when Mao Zedong analyzed the various classes of Chinese society, he proposed that the proletariat was thought of as the revolutionary leadership class. By the autumn of 1927, Mao had developed firmer ideas about the proletariats leadership of the Chinese revolution. In 1930, while discussing the theory of the new democratic revolution, his theoretical exposition on the proletarian leadership of the revolution became an important part of his work.
The Chinese bourgeois democratic revolution could not be led by the bourgeoisie, because the changes of the times and Chinas national conditions had determined that the Chinese bourgeoisie was not able to take up this leadership role. Chinas bourgeoisie was completely different from its counterpart in the West, which did not have to complete the anti-feudal revolution. This unique trait determined the attitude of the bourgeoisie as unstable and irresolute, and even in the revolution, it was not willing to separate itself completely from imperialism, and it likewise remained closely linked to land rent and exploitation in the countryside. Therefore, the bourgeoisie was unwilling and unable to completely overthrow feudal forces. In this way, the two basic problems of the Chinese bourgeois democratic revolution and the two basic tasks would not be achieved by the Chinese bourgeoisie. This had been proven by the Reform Movement of 1888 and the Revolution of 1911. Objectively speaking, the Chinese revolution required a new leadership class and a new path. The Chinese proletariat had adapted to the requirements of history and the call of the times to become the leading class in the Chinese revolution.
The Chinese proletariat could shoulder the heavy responsibility of leading the Chinese revolution, mainly because of its own unique traits. The Chinese proletariat was relatively small compared to the peasantry, was younger than the proletariat in capitalist countries, and had a lower cultural level than the bourgeoisie. It also had an ideology of many small workers. Yet despite all this, it remained the representative of Chinas advanced productive forces. It was the most progressive, most promising, and most combative class. It had the basic advantage of the general proletariat, which was that it was associated with advanced economic forms and was rich in areas such as organization and discipline.
In addition to the advantages of the proletariat all around the world, the Chinese proletariat had many unique advantages as a class for revolutionary leadership. First, it was deeply oppressed by imperialism, feudalism, and capitalism. The severity and cruelty of their oppression was rare among the world s nations. For this reason, not only was the entire class the most revolutionary, but it was also more determined and thorough than any other class in the revolutionary struggle. Second, although Chinas working class was small in numbers, it was highly concentrated in large cities and large enterprises. They were easily organized and easily formed into powerful forces, and their situation was conducive to the widespread dissemination of Marxism. Finally, most of the industrial workers in China came from bankrupt farmers, giving them a natural connection with the much larger peasantry, which facilitated the formation of a solid alliance with the peasant class. These special advantages of the Chinese proletariat determined that it was the only class suited to revolutionary leadership. Without the leadership of the proletariat and its Communist Party of China, the Chinese revolution could not succeed, as already evidenced by the entire history of the Chinese revolution.
Recognizing that the proletariat should lead and was capable of leading the Chinese revolution did not mean that the issue of leadership had been resolved. Leadership did not fall naturally into the hands of the proletariat, but had to be vigorously pursued. For this reason, the CPC, represented by Mao Zedong, gradually formulated a set of policies and strategies for striving for and mastering revolutionary leadership in the long-term revolutionary practice. These were:
1)	The establishment of a broad revolutionary united front based on an alliance of workers and peasants was the key to realizing the leadership of the proletariat. Mao Zedong once stated, "The Chinese proletariat should understand that although they themselves are the most conscious and organized class, they cannot win if they rely on the power of their own class. To win, they must form alliances in different situations with a variety of revolutionary classes and organize the revolutions united front. "^ Without a united revolutionary front, in fact, there would be no leadership of the proletariat. This united front must be based on the alliance of workers and peasants because "the proletariat is the most thoroughly revolutionary democratic class" and "the peasants are the greatest revolutionary democratic classT The peasantry, which accounted for about 80% of the country's total population, was the basic force determining the success or failure of the Chinese revolution. For this reason, the key to realizing the leadership of the proletarian revolution lay in uniting the peasants and forming a solid alliance of workers and peasants.
2)	When establishing a united front with the bourgeoisie, the principles of independence, unity, and struggle were the basis for the strategy for maintaining the leadership of the proletariat. Although the bourgeoisie could not lead the Chinese revolution to victory due to its own political, and economic weakness, that did not mean it would automatically give tip leadership. They not only exerted great influence on the petty bourgeoisie and peasants, but also exerted great influence on the proletariat and the CPC, and even strove to turn the proletariat and the CPC into the bourgeoisie. The tailing factions of its political parties sought to attribute the fruits of the revolution to a group of bourgeois parties. Therefore, when the proletariat and its political parties established a united front with the bourgeoisie, they had to maintain a clear mind, adhere to the principle of independence and implement a flexible strategy of unity and struggle. Only in this way could they maintain the united front with the bourgeoisie without losing sight of the leadership of the proletariat.
3)	The establishment of a strong revolutionary armed force was a strong pillar to guarantee the leadership of the proletariat. In a semi-colonial, semi-feudal China that lacked independence and democratic freedom, the main form of revolutionary struggle was to wage war, and the main form of revolutionary organization was the army. "Guns will bring power," so without a strong revolutionary armed force, the proletariat and CPC would have no status at all, not to speak of the leadership of the proletariat. Therefore, if the proletariat wanted to maintain its leadership in the democratic revolution, it must establish a strong revolutionary armed force.
4)	Strengthening the efforts to build the proletarian party was the fundamental guarantee for realizing the leadership of the proletariat. The leadership of the proletariat in the Chinese revolution was achieved through its party, the Communist Party of China, which was essentially the leadership of the CPC. The CPC was the initiator and organizer of the proletarian revolutionary cause. Only under the leadership of the CPC could the proletariat complete its historic mission and realize its cause of human liberation. As the political representative of the proletariat, the CPC relied mainly on the correct program, direction, and policy, relying on the vanguard and exemplary role of the Party members and appropriate relationships with established allies, and depending also on the development of the Communist Party. The unity of thought, the strictness of discipline, and other conditions led to the achievement and guarantee of their own political leadership. To this end, it was necessary for the CPC to comprehensively strengthen its own ideological, political, and organizational structure.
4 The Driving Force of the New Democratic Revolution
The driving force behind the new democratic revolution in the general line of the new democratic revolution was "the masses," which included the proletariat, the peasantry, the urban petty bourgeoisie, and the national bourgeoisie.
Most importantly, the proletariat was not only the most basic driving force behind the Chinese revolution, but also its leading force. This point has already been analyzed in great detail in the earlier discussion of the new democratic revolution.
The peasant class was not only the main driving force of the Chinese revolution, but also formed the main body of "the masses." Peasants accounted for about 80% of the country's total population, meaning that four out of five people in China were peasants. The so-called "masses," then, were mainly made up of peasants, so it followed that the main message of the revolution was an anti-feudal one. The most fundamental task was to eliminate the land ownership of the feudal landlords, and the main force that would accomplish this was the peasantry, the very class most oppressed under the feudal system. Therefore, the issue of the peasantry was "the basic theme of the Chinese revolution, and the power of the peasantry was the main force behind it." The Chinese revolution was characterized by armed revolution against armed counter-revolutionaries. The peasantry was the main source of manpower for the Chinese army, and the soldiers were simply peasants in military uniforms. To this end, Mao Zedong pointed out in his speech to the security forces of Northern Shaanxi in 1936 that whoever won over Chinas peasants would win the revolution. How should the peasant revolution be led? Mao said that the first step was to liberate the peasants, using the Agrarian Revolution as the central platform of the democratic revolution, and to completely eliminate the land ownership of the feudal landlords and implement the policy of "the cultivator having his own field."The second step was to educate the peasantry in Marxist theory, arming them with its advanced elements and inspiring them to recognize and overcome their own weaknesses. The Chinese revolution relied mainly on the power of two classes, workers and peasants. 
The Chinese peasantry included wealthy peasants, middle peasants, and poor peasants. The wealthy peasant, making up about 5% of the rural population, were rural bourgeoisie with semi-feudal tendencies, though many remained neutral in the Agrarian Revolution against the landlords. The middle peasants, accounting for about 20% of the rural population, were economically self-sufficient, had no political power, could participate in the anti-imperialist, anti-feudal struggle, and could accept socialism. They could become a reliable ally of the proletariat and an important part of revolutionary dynamics. Poor peasants, along with farm laborers, made up about 70% of the rural population. They were a semi-proletariat group in the countryside, the most powerful force in the Chinese revolution, and the most natural, reliable ally of the proletariat. Although the Chinese peasantry was divided into three groups, it was mainly the poor peasants and middle peasants who were referred to as the main force of the Chinese revolution. It was only when the proletariat formed a coalition with the poor and middle peasants that victory would be achieved in the revolution.
Further, the petty bourgeoisie was one of the basic driving forces of the Chinese revolution. During the period of the new democratic revolution, the petty bourgeoisie included not only peasants, but also intellectuals, small businessmen, craftsmen, and other self-sufficient professionals. Their status was similar to that of the middle peasantry. They were increasingly oppressed by the imperialists, feudalists, and upper bourgeoisie. Therefore, the petty bourgeoisie was one of the driving forces of the Chinese revolution and a reliable ally of the proletariat. Among them, intellectuals and young students often played the role of pioneers and bridges within the Chinese revolution. In particular, the vast number of poor intellectuals could join and support the revolution alongside the workers and peasants. "The widespread dissemination and acceptance of Marxism-Leninism in China occurs first and foremost among intellectuals and young students. The construction of the revolutionary forces and of revolutionary undertakings cannot succeed without the participation of intellectuals/^ Some of them were susceptible to the influence of the bourgeoisie, often subjectively and with an individualist impulse, so it was important to carry out the work of revolutionary propaganda and organization among them.
Finally, the national bourgeoisie was one of the driving forces of the Chinese revolution. The Chinese national bourgeoisie emerged in the 1870s, later than 
the Chinese proletariat. There were two main sources for the people making up this class. The first was the landlords, bureaucrats, and businessmen of modern enterprises in whom the government invested directly. The second group was made up of those transformed from manual workshop owner, who now used machines. Therefore, the Chinese bourgeoisie could be divided into upper and lower strata. The upper stratum owned large-scale enterprises and possessed relatively strong economic power. It had close ties to foreign capitalism and domestic feudalism. They had few conflicts, and often had a dual status as both official and businessman. The middle and lower strata usually owned smaller enterprises, and assets. Their ties with foreign capitalism and domestic feudalism were less, and their conflict greater.
In general, the Chinese national bourgeoisie was a two-strata class that pos¬sessed revolutionary hopes, yet also tended to vacillate. On the one hand, they were oppressed by the imperialists, shackled by feudalism, and caught in the conflicts with the imperialists and feudalists, and thus had a certain anti-feudal revolutionary nature and was thereby one of the driving forces of the revolution. On the other hand, they were economically and politically weak, and they could not completely cut their economic ties to imperialism and feudalism. They lacked courage to completely oppose feudalism and imperialism, and were thus easily shaken and compromised during the revolution.
The two sides of the Chinese national bourgeoisie were not the cowardly psychology of the primitive accumulation of capital nor the new problems that existed when workers' and peasants' risings threatened their own interests, but rather "the old problems they had been weaned onA The two sides of the national bourgeoisie were not sometimes present and sometimes not, but rather, they were innate and inevitable. In the period of revolutionary dominance, they compromised with the enemy, were brought along reluctantly to the anti-imperialist and anti¬feudalist program, and made early demands for the democratic nature of the Chinese revolution, though they lacked any real understanding of the issue. After the failure of the Great Revolution, the CPC's understanding of the nature of the revolution had been in a state of chaos. The Sixth National Congress of the CPC made an accurate assessment of the nature of the Chinese revolution, but leftist opportunism crept in, leading to the error of confusing the democratic and socialist revolutions. Through a combination of theory and practice, the CPC gained an accurate understanding of the nature of the revolution and offered a scientific interpretation, which culminated in Mao Zedong’s The Chinese Revolution and the Communist Party of China and New Democracy. 
Tied to the nature of the revolution was the question of its future. Generally speaking, the future of the bourgeois democratic revolution was to establish a capitalist system and a bourgeois dictatorship, but this was not the future of the Chinese revolution. The Chinese revolution no longer took the development of capitalism as its ultimate goal, but must instead follow the path of a new- style democratic revolution. Under the leadership of the proletariat, the people s democratic dictatorship would achieve the goal of socialism through the new democratic revolution. The question of the future of the new democratic revo¬lution was actually a question of how to deal with the relationship between the democratic and socialist revolutions. To this end, Mao Zedong proposed the idea of a "two step" Chinese revolution, stating that the Chinese revolution had to be divided into first the change of social form from a semi-colonial, semi-feudal state to a new independent democratic state, and then to engage in a revolution to build a socialist society. He wrote, "The entire Chinese revolutionary movement led by the CPC is an overall revolutionary movement that includes two stages, a democratic revolution and a socialist revolution. This revolutionary process involves two different natures, and both are necessary if we are to complete the "IO process.
Strictly distinguishing the nature of the democratic revolution from that of the socialist revolution was not meant to separate the links between the two. The relationship between the two revolutions was like that between the first and second parts of an article. Only if the first part was well written could the second part be well done. In a nutshell, "The democratic revolution is a necessary preparation for the socialist revolution. The ultimate goal of the entire CPC is to strive for the final realization of a socialist and communist society."There were two types of wrong tendencies in the CPC s internal struggle. One was to completely separate the two closely related stages of the Chinese revolution, only noting the differences between the two. Failing to see the connections between the two resulted in the period of bourgeois dictatorship and the development of capitalism. The other tendency was to advocate that the democratic and socialist revolutions "accomplished the same work," attempting to collapse the two stages into one. Taking things too far in this direction confused the line between the democratic and socialist revolutions. These two erroneous tendencies were contrary to the laws governing the development of the Chinese revolution. For this reason, Mao Zedong drew the profound conclusion that only by recognizing the distinction between the new democratic revolution and the socialist revolution, while at the same time recognizing the connection between them, could the Chinese revolution be led correctly. 
CHAPTER 6
China’s Revolutionary Path Theory
I The Impact of the City-centered Theory on the Communist  Party of China 
1.	The Origin of the City-centered Theory
After its failure in the Great Revolution, the CPC established the armed resistance against the Kuomintang's reactionary rule, but how were they to go about winning this armed struggle? What path should the revolution take? This was another question the Party faced, much like the earlier question of who would lead the revolution. Establishing the understanding that armed struggle was the main form of the Chinese revolutionary struggle was historic progress for the Party. However, for a period of time, the Party fell into some misunderstandings regarding the theory of the centrality of cities in the course of its exploration of the revolutionary road.
In the Soviet Union, the violent proletarian revolution was achieved by directly arming the working class and organizing an uprising in the urban centers to gain a victory for the revolution. Having developed Marxism in the process of leading the Russian Revolution, Lenin suggested that the proletariat must take the city as its center. Lenin believed that only the proletariat, which was concentrated in urban centers, could completely demolish the bourgeoisie. "The city must lead the countryside, and the countryside must follow the city"; according to Lenin. For this reason, it was thought that seizing political power in urban centers was of strategic significance for seizing national political power. At the same time, Lenin pointed out that once the proletariat launched an uprising, it must continue a bold, brave attack. The basic principles of Marxism-Leninism were undoubtedly correct, but the revolution of each country had its own unique characteristics. Therefore, when the Comintern guided the Chinese revolution according to the Soviet model and the Chinese Communists gave their blessing to the Comintern directive, they shifted toward a "leftist" dogmatic line to guide the Chinese revolution.
After the October Revolution in Russia, the city-centered theory was introduced into China alongside Marxism. After the Second National Congress in 1922, the CPC joined the Comintern and became its Chinese branch, which resulted in the theories and policies of the international party having a profound impact on the formulation of the CPC's major policies. During the Great Revolution, the Central Committee of the CPC took the city-centered path, in accordance with the directive of the Comintern. At that time, because the first cooperation between the KMT and the CPC had been achieved, the revolutionary KMT had not only had a unified revolutionary base in Guangdong, but also had a national revolutionary army of tens of thousands of people. Further, the revolutionary goals of the Northern Warlords was divided, lacking a unifying force or a central government. This led to a great victory for the Northern Expedition, which was jointly led by the KMT and the CPC, demonstrating that the path used in that expedition to capture the urban centers was fundamentally correct. This was determined by the special historic conditions of that time. After the failure of the Great Revolution, Chinas political situation had undergone a drastic change. The Party's former allies had become vicious enemies, and they had established a unified government and a powerful army while occupying the urban centers and opposing Communist Party members and revolutionaries and exercising a policy of bloody slaughter among the masses. Under these circumstances, the foreign experience of the centrality of the city to the revolution was obviously not suitable for China's national conditions. Mao Zedong later said, "If the revolutionary team is not willing to compromise with the imperialists and their lackeys, it must persist in its struggle. If the revolutionary team is to prepare to save the nation and exercise its own strengths, it must not waste powerful forces on invincible enemies, but must rather fight for a decisive outcome. This requires a change of direction." In other words, it was necessary to leave the urban centers and go to the mountains and countryside, where they would re-establish a solid base "and launch an attack on our fierce enemy in the countryside rather than the city and, in the long run, emerge victorious through the arduous revolutionary struggle. This change in the revolutionary path was not only allowed under the tenets of Marxism, but was also the most essential need and truest expression of it. However, at that time, a lack of understanding of Marxist theory and Chinese revolutionary practice prevented the CPC from escaping the influence of the city-centered theory, so it continued to take the city as central to the revolutionary struggle. In this way, the influence of the city-centered theory became a prominent obstacle encountered by the CPC in its exploration of this new path for the Chinese revolution during the Agrarian Revolutionary War.
2.	The Impact of the City-centered Theory on the Chinese Revolution
The impact of the city-centered theory on the CPC was divided into several stages. The first was from the August 7th session of the Central Committee of the CPC in 1927 through the Sixth National Congress of the CPC in June 1928. During this phase, the impact of the theory of the centrality of cities was mainly manifested in two ways.
The first manifestation was seen in the several uprisings led by the CPC Central Committee before and after the August 7th Meeting, all of which sought to use rioting as the catalyst by which to launch the revolution. For instance, during the autumn harvest in Hunan, the CPC and the Hunan Provincial Party Committee advocated the Changsha riot as the starting point for the revolution. In a letter to the Central Committee, the Hunan Provincial Party Committee pointed out, "The Changsha riots and autumn harvest riots are the same thing. The Changsha riots were the starting point for the autumn harvest riots. "^ The Central government also believed that this was true "in principle." Another example was the Guangzhou Uprising. The Central Committee believed that it was "the beginning of all the riots in Guangdong and a signal of the nationwide workers' and peasants' riots to comeU In this way, the Central Committee's idea of taking cities as the starting points for riots was fully reflected in the uprisings after the failure of the Great Revolution. Since October 1927, in the directives of the provincial committees in Hunan, Hubei, Chongqing, Guangdong, and Fujian, it was also proposed that guerrilla warfare and general agrarian revolutions should be launched, creating an "independent separatist situation" and "establishing a peasant revolution." However, this was not an indication that the Central Committee had abandoned the idea of the centrality of the cities. On the contrary, the Central Committee still advocated the notion that "a rioting city can become the center and guide for spontaneous peasant riots." Under the guidance of such thinking, the Central Committee demanded that in Hunan, "the overall arrangement of riots should be centered in Changsha." In a letter to the Guangdong Provincial Party Committee, the Central Committee pointed out that the Chinese revolution had in fact formed a special means of "censoring peasant separatists," but the development of such separatists "must be obtained" in the larger cities in various regions so that the leadership of the proletariat could be seen "on the surface."This demonstrated that the urban-centered thinking had not changed, regardless of what changes the Central Committee had made in connection with the specific form of rioting and a measure of attention placed on rural separatism.
This situation in the Central Committee was mainly the result of the influence of the Comintern. On February 25, 1928, the Ninth Expanded Meeting of the Executive Committee of the Comintern issued its Decision on the China Issue, which emphasized that the Chinese revolution should continue to follow the path of making cities the center of its activity, while criticizing the rural guerrilla war being led by the Central Committee of the CPC. The Decision pointed out that rural riots must be "the starting point for national riots" at the peak of the urban riots, and that the Party's main task was to prepare cities and villages across several provinces and regions. In order to coordinate with this mobilization, it was necessary to not merely launch armed uprising and guerrilla warfare in rural areas while failing to treat urban areas as the center of the revolution. To do so would inevitably lead to the failure of the guerrilla wars. It was further suggested that "we must oppose the infatuation with guerrilla warfare, which will only lead to failure, as it is indiscriminate and disjointed."^ This was an obvious attempt to guide the Chinese revolution according to the model provided by the Russian revolution with the city as the center. Such subjectivism, which was out of sync with the situation on the ground in China, had a serious impact on the Chinese revolution.
The second stage was Com the Sixth National Congress through the Third Plenary Session of the Sixth Congress of the Central Committee in September 1930. During this phase, the Central Committee emphasized that the focus of the Party's work should be placed on urban centers and that it should be aware of the risk of "leftists" as urban uprisings and attacks in big cities were organized.
The Sixth National Congress of the CPC, held in June and July 1928, continued to refer to the city-centered theory of the Comintern as a guide for the Chinese revolution. In a report from the Comintern, Nikola Ivanovic Bukharins representative did not recognize the guerrilla warfare led by the CPC as a means of accumulating and developing revolutionary forces. Starting from the real situation in China, a positive exploration of a new path for the Chinese revolution, it criticized the CPC's armed uprisings in some places and establishment of revolutionary base areas, calling it "emphasizing the peasants and paying less attention to the workers."In his conclusions presented to the General Assembly, he also proposed that the Chinese Red Army was "an unproductive mass" that simply sought to demolish. He stated that it was best for the Red Army to "be distributed in various places," sending guerrillas everywhere, and play the role of a peasant self-defense force. After the Sixth National Congress of the CPC, the Comintern expressed its concern that the CPC had no longer served as a "peasant party" in rural area. They believed that the Party's work was centered in the city and that only workers' movements could reflect the leadership of the proletarian party. However, with rural areas as the center, there were a large number of peasant Party members, and instead of becoming a proletarian party, they were becoming a peasant party. In fact, it emphasized the requirement that the CPC must follow the city-centered path. On October 26,1929, the Comintern Executive Committee gave the Central Committee of the CPC the Letter on the Kuomintang Reorganization and the Task of the Communist Party of China, stressing that the CPC should adopt a policy of "concern about all the forces, aiming to develop political strikes and prepare for the general political strike. By October 1930, although the Comintern recognized the imbalance between the Chinese workers' and peasants' movements, it continued to emphasize to the CPC that "the establishment of the Soviet government means that the CPC intends to hold an armed uprising in the largest industrial center."This was based on the model typical of the October Revolution to guide the specific actions of the Communist Party of China.
On April 28,1928, when the Politburo of the Central Committee of the CPC discussed the February Resolution sent by the Comintern, either in response to criticism from the international party or in an effort to express loyalty to the international path, many people spoke in support of the international directive. They believed that since the August 7th Meeting, the CPC had underestimated the strength of the urban working class, bringing negative results and the abandonment of urban work. "This is not right," they asserted. They held that the lack of the workers' movement suggested "the leadership of a peasant consciousness," which needed to be guarded against. Based on this discussion, on the 30th, the Politburo of the Central Committee issued the Notice on the Resolution of the Comintern, stating that the failure of the armed uprising in rural areas was "a result of the lack of urban leadership and a lack of proper cooperation and communication." It further criticized the Hunan and Hubei Provincial Party Committees for the Autumn Harvest Riots, stating that since the riots they had "subjectively only called for rural riots, not urban riots" and were "sinking into" guerrilla warfare. In addition, it called upon local Party departments to "restore urban workers' leadership of the countryside," emphasizing that "the city is the leader of the countryside."
With the above-mentioned guiding spirit, after the Sixth National Congress of the CPC, the city-centered theory continued to have a deep influence on the CPC. This was evident in the following ways:
1)	Emphasis that the Party’s work should be focused on urban centers. The Central Committee of the CPC held that after the failure of the Great Revolution, many party organizations were transferred back to the countryside, and it was the resulting peasant consciousness that put the CPC "in danger of departing from the proletariat." In order to guarantee the nature of the Party and create its proletarian foundation, the Central Committee of the CPC suggested the appointment of industrial regions and important cities as "centers of work." Because "the city is the center of the entire political economy, it can lead the countryside. When we get the cities and villages, we can proceed quickly changing the general spirit of our work from a  simple village mentality to an urban mentality"^ Even if rural work were carried out, "the focus should be on rural areas near cities,and should never become biased toward the development of the hinterlands. This urban-centric view seriously hampered the transformation of the Party's focus of work.
2)	Ignore the peasant war and  the soviet base. At that time, the Central Committee believed that in the new climax of the revolution, the peasant war was a major tributary and the symbol of the most important peak of the revolution, the revival of the workers' movement. For this reason, in the Party's work, it was important to hold to the firm belief that the establishment of a branch of several people in a heavy industry was more valuable than the development of more than a hundred comrades in the countryside. Li Lisan's "leftist" risk-taking period was even more serious. The Central Committee emphasized that the riots in the urban centers must be decisive, stating that the idea of the city being surrounded by rural separatists was "a fantasy" and "an absolutely wrong concept," while accusing the rural workers of holding "a peasant mentality. "In this way, the idea of rural separatism that the CPC had previously endorsed was now criticized as something wrong. This sort of understanding was undoubtedly a regression.
3)	Propose an expedition to attack urban centers . At the beginning of the 1930s, as the revolutionary forces were restored to a certain extent, the warlord warfare provided a good opportunity for the development of the revolutionary struggle. The central government made an erroneous estimate of the situation, believing that the revolutionary situation was mature and reaching its peak. In this situation, it was important to prepare a province or provinces to unite first, establishing a national revolutionary regime as the general policy of the Party's current strategy and emphasizing that the region first captured should be "a place that stood for national leadership both politically and economically," such as Shanghai or Wuhan. In this way the capture of the big city was proposed as the primary task. The Central Committee emphasized that the capture of the big cities must involve armed riots by workers. This was the "most important" condition for the riots to succeed. Therefore, military efforts should allow armed workers to take "first place" on their agenda. The Central Committee insisted that the general alliance strike, or even stage armed riots, in Shanghai and organize armed violence in Nanjing in an effort to cooperate with the first victory off the armed forces in Wuhan and neighboring provinces. At the same time, the Central Committee also suggested to the Red Army that it should attack big cities, insisting that it "develop strategically and tactically toward a focus on urban centers.""' Clearly, the CPC Central Committee sought to establish an alliance between the urban workers' riots and the Red Army's offensive in an effort to capture the urban centers and achieve an early victory in the provinces, with Wuhan as its center.
4)	Deny the imbalance in the development of the revolution. At that time, the Central Committee overestimated the development of the revolutionary situation, exaggerated the instability of the enemy's rule, denied the imbalance in the revolutionary development, and believed that "the fundamental crisis of China's economic politics is sharpening equally in all parts of China, with only slight variations." Further, "the most obvious aspect of the revolutionary situation is the development of the workers, peasants, and soldiers of the Red Army," which would "in any event, lead to a revolutionary climax." When the height of the revolution came, "the beginning of a riot in a province or provinces will be the beginning of a national riot," and "the first victory in a province or provinces will be the beginning of a national victory."^ This estimate was actually completely dependent on the first victory in a province.
It was undeniable that after the Sixth National Congress the Central Com¬mittee also paid more attention to the development of the Red Army in rural areas and started to engage in guerrilla warfare. However, the Central Committee raised this issue from the perspective of striving for the masses and preparing for urban riots. The development of the Red Army and rural guerrilla warfare had always been lumped under the umbrella of urban riots. The Party's work had been greatly damaged by the adventurist policies of the leftists that focused on seizing the big cities. Though the Party's work was focused on urban centers, urban work did not achieve the results the Central Committee had expected, instead suffering great losses. Over the previous two months, eleven Provincial Party Committees had been destroyed by the enemy. There were few Party members in large enterprises, and the flow of large urban branches was uncertain, creating an overall unacceptable situation. At the same time, the Central Committee tWbbilized the Red Army to attack urban centers that were at some distance from Che base areas, causing both the Red Army and the base areas to suffer damage to Wrious degrees. The influence of the "urban center" theory had seriously hindered the development of the rural revolutionary struggle.
The third stage was from the Third Plenary Session of the Sixth Central Congress in September 1930 to the Sixth Anti-Encirclement Campaign. At this stage, the city-centered theory further harmed the Chinese revolution, practically bankrupting it. The Third Plenary Session brought a halt to Li Lisan's leftist adventurism (generally referred to as the "Lisan Road"), stopping the riots in and attacks on big cities, but the influence of the city-centered theory remained. After the failure of the Lisan Road, under the guidance of a directive from the Comintern, Wang Mings "leftist" dogmatism, which was left even of the Lisan Road, once again dominated the Central Committee of the CPC. Under the Wang Ming Road, the risky activity of taking urban centers re-emerged, insisting that the Red Army attack urban centers and engage enemy troops there. The city¬centered theory brought new forms of loss to the revolution.
During this period, the revolutionary situation had undergone some changes. On the one hand, the Red Army and the base areas had made great progress in the revolutionary war. On the other, the Party's work in White areas had suffered serious setbacks, with Party groups at all levels being destroyed and most of the struggles in the form of urban workers' strikes, mobile rallies, and even armed uprisings failing. Under these circumstances, it was imperative that the guiding ideology of the Central Committee not change, and it was even more important to pay attention to the battles of the Red Army and the rural revolutionary base areas. In the spring of 1933, the Central Committee moved temporarily from Shanghai to the Central Soviet Area, which should clearly have been a positive change. However, the move was forced and not well thought out. Although the Central Committee had moved temporarily to the countryside, it continued to hold to the city-centered theory. This basically demonstrated that:
1)	Advocating that the Red Army occupy the urban centers and achieve a first victory in one province. Guided by Wang Ming's leftist ideas, the Central Committee failed to recognize the long-term and circuitous nature of the Chinese revolution. Although they criticized Li Lisan for ordering the Red Army to attack the big cities as a risky, premature act, their disagreement with Li was not over whether they wanted to use occupation of the city to gain victory in a province or provinces, but rather in their estimation of the current situation, specifically, under what circumstances the city could be occupied. Therefore, if the situation changed, the Central Committee would repeat its mistake of attacking large cities. This was, in fact, what happened. Shortly after the September 18th Incident, the Central Committee proposed that "the past correct strategy of not taking the big cities no longer applies," and "with the current smooth political and military situation, we must take one or two important cities. The successful taking of a city will be the beginning of successful revolution in one province, as has been added to the overall agenda of the CPC during the soviet movement." From that time on, the occupation of an urban center with the aim of gaining a first province or provinces became the general policy of the Central Committee. Even in the Fifth Anti-Encirclement Campaign, the Red Army was in an extremely passive situation, and the Central Committee repeatedly emphasized the need to occupy urban centers to achieve victory in a first province. Under this policy the Central Committee had divided Mao Zedongs set of guidelines and policies for consolidating and developing the rural revolutionary base areas into "soviet theories for the mountains" and proposed that Deng Xiaoping, Mao Zedong, Xie Weijun, and Gu Bai "focus on the cities and set aside the impossible task of developing the soviet areas as major transportation networks." Directing their energy to developing vast rural areas with "weak enemy forces" was criticized as the "pessimism" of "proclaiming the abandonment of the soviet base areas." This was a struggle launched against Deng, Mao, Xie, and Gu.
The difference between this and the two early stages lay in the way it sought to capture urban centers to achieve the initial victory in a province. Although the Central Committee still proposed armed urban uprisings, its main emphasis was now on the occupation of the city through military attack by the Red Army and the first victory in a province or provinces. The main reason for this difference was that urban work had already been greatly diminished, while the strength of the Red Army continued to gradually increase. Circumstances had forced the Central Committee to take a new path in its urban-centric approach.
2)	Use of the “active offense”  approach and the strategy of regular warfare to command the Red Army’s war. The left unilaterally understood the principle that the Marxist struggle should continue after the armed uprising, and proposed that the "main key" of all strategic tactics was to destroy the enemy "by an offensive line," through what was called an "all round attack" which "captured the city in the center" then "fought the enemy with both fists," and other similar tactics. In order to carry out the line of active advances, the Central Committee emphasized the use of formal warfare, mentioning its opposition to "the conservative guerrilla warfare strategy" and insisting on the formalization of the Red Army. It stated that "the main force of the Red Army must be concentrated and must act as quickly as possible" to enable it to be fully committed to a decisive battle." The Central Committee denied that the form of the Chinese revolutionary war was an ongoing repetition of the Anti-Encirclement campaigns. It believed that the Fifth Anti-Encirclement Campaign was the "decisive class war," and that this campaign could address the "soviet path and the colonial path." The question of who would win this battle still remained. Guided by erroneous thinking, the Central Committee directed the Fifth Anti-Encirclement Campaign according to the principle of so-called regular warfare, opposed "guerrilla tactics," opposed the enticement of the enemy, and advocated "defending against the enemy in the backcountry" while promoting inner maneuvers. This defense and fortress tactic led directly to the failure of the Fifth Anti-Encirclement Campaign.
Under the guidance of Wang Ming, the Central Committee led the work of the Red Army and the base areas armed with a wrong view of the cities, which brought great losses to the Chinese revolution. The failure of the Fifth Anti¬Encirclement Campaign had objectively declared the end of the city-centered theory in China.
The failure of the Fifth Anti-Encirclement Campaign led to a crisis in the Chinese revolution. At this critical juncture, in January 1935, the Central Committee held the Zunyi Conference during the course of the Long March. The meeting focused on correcting military mistakes that had a decisive significance at the time, summing up the lessons of the defeat in the Fifth Anti-Encirclement Campaign and ending the dominance of Wang Ming s leftist doctrine within the Central Committee. According to a speech made by Mao Zedong entitled "The Summary Resolution on Opposing the Enemies Five Encirclement Campaigns," he stated, "The Chinese civil war is not a short-term struggle but a long-lasting one. The soviet revolutionary force constantly demolished the enemy, as developed in the Anti-Encirclement campaigns. Under the principles of a protracted war, it is necessary to oppose both conservatism and adventurism caused by the overestimation of ones own victory and the underestimation of theenemy's strength."The resolution specifically mentioned that the adventurism of "uncertainty and unnecessarily attacking the enemy's urban centers" had caused serious losses to the Red Army and the revolutionary war. This was actually a criticism of the city-centered theory, and it marked the beginning of a shift of focus in the work of the entire Party.
After the Red Army's Long March reached Northern Shaanxi, the Central Committee deployed work in the five provinces of Shanxi, Shaanxi, Gansu, Yunnan, and Ningxia, but no longer employed a strategy of attempting to gain a first victory among several provinces with a city as the center. Rather, the Central Committee believed that "the Chinese soviet revolution has achieved its first victory in certain provinces and regions. The view that it must first take a city in order to take a province was declared "incompatible." After the Wayaobao Meeting, in his article "On Strategies for Resisting Japanese Imperialism," Mao Zedong discussed the imbalance in China's political and economic development and the resulting imbalance of revolutionary development. The resulting long¬term characteristics of the revolution had led to the conclusion that "the victory of the revolution always begins with the areas where counter-revolutionary forces are weak. These areas must be developed first in order for victory to be gained. This was why the Central Committee shifted its focus to the countryside. The idea of triumphing first in the areas where enemy rule was weak completely refuted and replaced the view that the provinces with the city as focus should be conquered first, bringing to fruition a significant change on the revolutionary path. This was mainly a result of Mao Zedong's efforts. Under his guidance, a group of Chinese Communists adhered to the long-term rural revolution, constantly summing up the experience gained and lessons learned there and fighting "leftist" error.
3. Summary of the Practical Results of the Party 's City-centered Theory
The CPC was a party particularly skilled at summing up the lessons it had learned from failures and setbacks. The result of the painful practice of the city-centered theory enabled the Party to earnestly recognize that:
1)	The city-centered theory had a profound impact on the CPC. No matter what form it took, the theory only brought harm to the revolutionary cause. In the first instance, it had enabled the Central Committee to adhere over a long period to the idea of focusing on the city, whether as the center of riots or the center of daily work. Even when the Central Committee fmaJly moved into the countryside, it continued to call for the capture of urban centers. The Red Army and the work of the  base areas was guided by such thinking for a long time. In addition, it led the Central Committee to command the Red Army's maneuvers with the armed uprising principle of the European proletarian revolution, which lacked understanding of the rules and characteristics of the Chinese revolutionary struggle. In short, the city-centered theory seriously affected the shift of the focus of the work of the CPC, and for a long time the Party was not able to accept the correct revolutionary path presented by Mao Zedong. As a result, the revolutionary cause suffered repeated setbacks. Of course, in the practice of leading the revolution, the Central Committee's ideological understanding also underwent a change. For instance, the idea that victory had first to be won in the city then in the province was colored in such a way to fit Chinese circumstances and conform to China's situation. Therefore, when some failed to understand the characteristics of the Chinese revolution at a certain point in time, they would accept this view. In this sense, the idea of first gaining a victory in one province, then a number of provinces played a transitional role in the process of the Party ridding itself of the influence of the city-centered theory. However, the first point of victory in a province was the provincial capital or central city, which was in essence still urban-centric. At that time, the Central Committee was not able to grasp that the capture of the central cities was the final stage of the Chinese democratic revolution, and that it was not necessary in the short term to capture an urban center in order to capture a province. Here, the influence of the city- centered theory was clearly visible and had become an obstacle to the CPC's deepening understanding of the Chinese revolution. Facts had proven that no matter what form the city-centered theory took in China, it could only bring harm to the revolution.
2) The reason the city-centered theory could not lead to victory in the Chinese revolution was that it was not a product of China’s social,  political and economic development. A As such, it did not conform to the real situation in China. The soil in which the city-¬centered theory had been cultivated was that of a European capitalist society, and so it reflected the rules and characteristics of a European proletarian revolution. China's national conditions were different from those of Europe, and they were unique. From the perspective of China's social and economic development, it is evident that China had lost the opportunity to develop capitalism independently because of imperialist invasion. China's social economy did not follow the norma! rules of economic development, forming a unified market for cities and villages, with cities controlling the nation's economy. Of China's big cities, the ones that had survived this history, such as Beijing, were mainly centers of feudal political power, the consumer center rather than the center of production. Such cities were economically unable to control the countryside. The other category was the emerging economic and political centers, such as Shanghai, but the economic lifelines of such cities were in the hands of the imperialists. This sort of urban economy could only be found in a semi-colonial country, and it could not be compared with Western economies, in which cities were the center. As far as the rural economy was concerned, in China's vast hinterlands, feudal production methods were still predominant, so it was difficult to say that industrial cities would have a decisive influence over the vast rural areas. Throughout the process of China's capitalist development, peasants close to the commercial port areas would undoubtedly be affected by the commodity economy, accelerating the process of the separation of laborers from the means of production. However, this process of separation was mainly caused not by the prosperity of the industrial and commercial sectors, but by feudal factors such as feudal land ownership and super-economic forced exploitation. In the vast areas far from the trading ports and inaccessible areas, the natural economy was still predominant. In China, not only was there an imbalance between the economic development between urban and rural areas, but the economic development between various rural areas was likewise uneven. Therefore, China's cities and villages were not in a unified economic state. Cities could not control the vast rural areas, and villages could be selCsufHcient without the cities. Under such conditions, cities could play an important role in the revolution, but they could not carry the same weight of authority as European cities. From the comparison of class power, it is evident that the absolute number of people making up the Chinese proletariat was not less than the number of Russian workers in the October Revolution. However, because of China's large population, the relative numbers of the Chinese working class were small. During the October Revolution, Russian workers accounted for one-sixth of the country's total population. Now, Chinese workers only accounted for one in two hundred of the total population. For this reason, the main force of the revolution could not be workers, but peasants. The leadership role of the proletariat could not be reflected in actions such as urban strikes and riots, but in the dispatch of its own vanguard to serve as the rural leadership of peasants in the agrarian revolution and the revolutionary war. The proletarian leadership of the peasants could not take the same form it had in Europe, where urban workers first took part in the revolution, driving the peasants.
Judging from Chinas political situation, it is clear that China had been a feudal autocratic centralized nation for thousands of years, and yet it had no democratic tradition. Since the revolution of 1911, although there had been some democratic propaganda, it had never penetrated very deeply because it had had such a short time to do so, particularly in the face of such old traditions, alongside other reasons. After Chiang Kai-shek came to power, he too inherited the tradition of feudal autocracy and participated in fascist methods of rule. The more central a city was the stricter his reactionary rule there was, and the more easily the revolutionaries were suppressed. Given such conditions, there was no established parliament like that in some European countries on which to rely, and it was impossible to launch activities and consolidate strength in the city. Therefore, the Chinese revolution could not use cities as its base, directly seizing supreme political power in a city. It could only use villages as a revolutionary base, then move from the village to attack the city, finally achieving national political power in this way.
The above social and historical conditions determined that the Chinese revolution could not take the same path taken by European revolutions, with the city as center, as it was not feasible to do so in China.
3)The Central Committee of the CPC rid itself  of the city-centered theory through a long, tortuous process. This demonstrates that the proper combination of Marxism and Chinese revolutionary practice was a complex, arduous undertaking. At the turning point after the failure of the Great Revolution, the Central Committee of the CPC could not yet fully understand the national conditions of the country in a way that allowed them to be revolutionized and the rules and characteristics of the revolutionary movement put into place in a short period of time, exploring the revolutionary road. Subjectively, an important cause was the dogmatic treatment of Marxism and the arbitrary application of foreign experience. Marx, Engels, and Lenin all attached great importance to the city's leadership role in the revolution. According to Marx and Engels, the leadership role of the city referred to the leading role the proletariat played for the peasantry. Lenin also said, "The bigger the city, the greater its role in the revolution." Of course, Marx, Engels, and Lenin did not neglect the role of the peasantry, but they all discussed the issue from the perspective of fighting for the peasants' allied force. They did not say that the proletarian class should not focus its work on the countryside in the course of revolution. The Chinese Communists, who were adhering to Marxism-Leninism but were not good at applying its principles to the reality of the Chinese situation naturally went on to apply the principles of Marxism-Leninism as a guide to action, and so the city naturally became the Party's center of work. Such thinking became a sort of fixed orthodoxy for a long period, and the new concept derived from China's actual situation was treated as a form of anti-Marxist "heresy." It was not easy to creatively apply the principles of Marxism in the context of Marxist dogma and the blessing of the resolutions and directives of the Comintern and Soviet experience. This was a part of the profound teachings history has left to us.
II 
The Establishment of the Concept of an “Armed Division of Workers and Peasants”
1.	Proposing a Different Model from the October Revolution
Through the entire Party's struggle to find a way to save the nation and a new path for the revolution, many members of the CPC, represented mainly by Mao Zedong, eventually found a way to promote the Chinese revolution, after a long process of creating and cultivating the Red Army and the rural revolutionary base areas. The path to revival was instrumental in formulating a set of theories that led to the victory of the Chinese revolution. The idea of an "armed division of workers and peasants" marked the beginning of this great theoretical construction.
Although the city-centered theory continued to dominate the CPC, when faced with the difficult situation and the complex national conditions of the Chinese revolution, the entire Party sought to explore and consider the future and its path.
Because of the inconsistent pace and degree of revolutionary development from one place to another, the Central Committee began to recognize the imbalance of China's social and political development, which caused an imbalance in the development of the revolution. The first was that because of the imbalance in the development the workers and the peasants, the rural struggle had developed in the form of guerrilla warfare and some places had been organized and soviets established, while the cities had not developed to this extent. The second observation was that the development of regional revolutionary movements was unbalanced, with some provinces having developed to the extent of riots and seized provincial power, while many provinces had yet achieved this level. This being the case at this stage, the Central Committee proposed ideas that were a departure from the Russian October Revolution model.
The first of these was a strategic goal of "first victory in one provinces, then several." At the beginning of the Agrarian Revolutionary War, the Central Committee mainly instigated armed riots in the provinces of Hunan, Hubei, Jiangxi, and Guangdong. In fact, most of the uprisings led by the Party were concentrated in these provinces, and the riots in the north were not as vigorous as those in the southern provinces. This indicated that the Central Committee did not take approach of the French Revolution or the Russian October Revolution, which was to seize the capital in "a single stroke." In November 1927, the Central Committee clearly stated that it was necessary to "combine the power of the peasant riots, consolidate spontaneous labor and peasant riots everywhere, and seize power, eventually gaining victory in a province or provinces." The central government believed that, faced with a general climax in the revolution, it was possible to first gain victory in areas where the enemy was weak, the trend of the workers and peasants was rising, and Party leadership was strongest. Such a victory would be the first step toward national victory, which would be guaranteed by the establishment of a soviet regime. After this, it was necessary to "extend this regime to other regions, even to all of the four hundred million people in China. The Sixth National Congress of the CPC affirmed this strategic goal of gaining an initial victory in a province or provinces, pointing out that if the revolution reached a climax, it would be possible to win one or several provinces.
The second proposal was the idea that a rural-urban division would strengthen urban work, so that the first victory of a province would be completed through an urban riot. After the failure of the Guangzhou Uprising, the Central Committee emphasized in its instructions to all locales that "the occupation of large cities is the final step in the struggle of the workers and peasants that will lead the vast areas to a stage of maturity."^ Prior to this, in the struggle to strengthen urban centers, the "zoning" of rural areas led to a sort of "separatism." Further, it held that "when the division of the country is complete and the urban struggle reaches its climax, then the completely regional rural riots with cities at the center will be launched. Only then can the task of capturing these areas be achieved."
In this way, by encircling the cities with rural divisions, while at the same time strengthening the urban work, and finally completing the revolutionary path of an initial victory in a province through rural riots, the city was replaced as the starting point for revolution, pushing it instead to the countryside, from which an initiative aimed at taking the capital would be launched. This was the Central Committee's first step toward starting to work from the actual situation in China and break through the shackles of the city-centered theory. It played an important role in shining a light on the Party's exploration and ultimate acceptance of the idea of rural encirclement of urban areas.
However, at that time, the Central Committee did not understand the imbalance of China's social and political development, particularly the imbalance between the political and economic development of urban and rural areas, making it impossible to break the shackles of the city-centered theory. At the same time, the goal of gaining a first victory in a province or provinces did not accurately reflect the principle of imbalance in the development of the Chinese revolution. The defects it contained would still bring losses to the Chinese revolution under certain conditions.
2.	The Initial Form of the Concept of an Armed Division of Workers and Peasants"
In the exploration of the Chinese revolutionary path, an ideological sprout of truly great significance was the proposal of the "climbing the mountains" idea within the CPC. This idea was the initial form the concept of an armed division of workers and peasants took.
Around the time of the August 7th Meeting, the Central Committee discussed several issues concerning the peasant movement and the peasant armed forces. It was at this time that Mao proposed the idea of "climbing the mountain." In June 1927, Mao convened a meeting in Hankou of the Party members from Hunan who had Hed after the Mari Incident. At this meeting, he called on everyone to go back to their hometowns, suggesting those from mountainous regions go to the mountains and those from lake or river regions board boats, as they resolutely fought the enemy and defended the revolutionary ideal. He then returned to Hunan as the Secretary of the Provincial Party Committee, where he presided over the committee's work and led the members of peasant association and peasant self-defense forces to "climb the mountain" and "go into the lake" to conserve the energy of the revolution and bide their time. On July 4, at the Expanded Meeting of the Standing Committee of the Central Committee of the CPC, Mao suggested that "the peasant armed forces can climb the mountain, or they can invest in an army that is connected with the Party," stating clearly that "if we don't conserve energy, we will have nothing in the future." He believed that "the peasant army can climb the mountain," and he expected that doing so "can create the basis for military power." On the 13th, the Central Committee issued a declaration stating that this was "the point at which the revolution is in jeopardy." The Central Committee decided to hold peasant riots at the autumn harvest in four provinces, Hunan, Hubei, Chongqing, and Guangdong, to promote the implementation of an agrarian revolution. At the end of July, Mao actively engaged in the preparatory work for the autumn harvest riots and drafted for the Central Committee the Outline of the Hunan Movement (referred to hereafter as "the Outline"). The Outline reflects Maos idea of starting a military riot, establishing an army led by the Party, forming an armed separatist group, establishing a revolutionary regime, and promoting an agrarian revolution. On August 7, the Central Committee of the CPC secretly held an emergency meeting in Hankou. At this meeting, Mao summed up four lessons learned from the failure of the Great Revolution: completely abandoning the Communist Party's stance on political independence, failing to pay attention to military issues, failing to propose a revolutionary solution to the peasants' land problem, and allowing the Party to be separate from the people, which highlighted the need for greater attention to military efforts in the future. It was essential to understand that political power was obtained by guns. At the August 7th Meeting, Mao was elected to serve as an alternate member of the Central Provisional Politburo. Cai Hesen proposed that Mao remain involved in Central work, and Qu Qiubai asked him to go to the Shanghai branches of central organs. Mao disagreed. He said, "I want to go out and engage in armed uprisings. I don't want to stay in high-rise buildings. I want to go to the mountains and befriend our comrades there. On August 9, Mao attended the meeting of the Provisional Central Politburo, where he criticized Hunan for organizing an army division for that "when the division of the country is complete and the urban struggle reaches its climax, then the completely regional rural riots with cities at the center will oe launched. Only then can the task of capturing these areas be achieved."
In this way, by encircling the cities with rural divisions, while at the same time strengthening the urban work, and finally completing the revolutionary path of an initial victory in a province through rural riots, the city was replaced as the starting point for revolution, pushing it instead to the countryside, from which an initiative aimed at taking the capital would be launched. This was the Central Committee's first step toward starting to work from the actual situation in China and break through the shackles of the city-centered theory. It played an important role in shining a light on the Party's exploration and ultimate acceptance of the idea of rural encirclement of urban areas.
However, at that time, the Central Committee did not understand the imbalance of China's social and political development, particularly the imbalance between the political and economic development of urban and rural areas, making it impossible to break the shackles of the city-centered theory. At the same time, the goal of gaining a first victory in a province or provinces did not accurately reflect the principle of imbalance in the development of the Chinese revolution. The defects it contained would still bring losses to the Chinese revolution under certain conditions.
2. The Initial Form of the Concept of an "Armed Division of Workers and Peasants"
In the exploration of the Chinese revolutionary path, an ideological sprout of truly great significance was the proposal of the "climbing the mountains idea within the CPC. This idea was the initial form the concept of an armed division of workers and peasants took.
Around the time of the August 7th Meeting, the Central Committee discussed several issues concerning the peasant movement and the peasant armed forces. It was at this time that Mao proposed the idea of "climbing the mountain." In June 1927, Mao convened a meeting in Hankou of the Party members from Hunan who had fled after the Mari Incident. At this meeting, he called on everyone to go back to their hometowns, suggesting those from mountainous regions go to the mountains and those from lake or river regions board boats, as they resolutely fought the enemy and defended the revolutionary ideal.He then returned to Hunan as the Secretary of the Provincial Party Committee, where he presided over the committee's work and led the members of peasant association and peasant self-defense forces to "climb the mountain" and "go into the lake" to conserve the energy of the revolution and bide their time. On July 4, at the Expanded Meeting of the Standing Committee of the Central Committee of the CPC, Mao suggested that "the peasant armed forces can climb the mountain, or they can invest in an army that is connected with the Party," stating clearly that "if we don't conserve energy, we will have nothing in the future." He believed that "the peasant army can climb the mountain," and he expected that doing so "can create the basis for military power. On the 13th, the Central Committee issued a declaration stating that this was "the point at which the revolution is in jeopardy." The Central Committee decided to hold peasant riots at the autumn harvest in four provinces, Hunan, Hubei, Chongqing, and Guangdong, to promote the implementation of an agrarian revolution. At the end of July, Mao actively engaged in the preparatory work for the autumn harvest riots and drafted for the Central Committee the Outline of the Hunan Movement (referred to hereafter as "the Outline"). The Outline reflects Maos idea of starting a military riot, establishing an army led by the Party, forming an armed separatist group, establishing a revolutionary regime, and promoting an agrarian revolution. On August 7, the Central Committee of the CPC secretly held an emergency meeting in Hankou. At this meeting, Mao summed up four lessons learned from the failure of the Great Revolution: completely abandoning the Communist Party's stance on political independence, failing to pay attention to military issues, failing to propose a revolutionary solution to the peasants' land problem, and allowing the Party to be separate from the people, which highlighted the need for greater attention to military efforts in the future. It was essential to understand that political power was obtained by gunsG At the August 7th Meeting, Mao was elected to serve as an alternate member of the Central Provisional Politburo. Cai Hesen proposed that Mao remain involved in Central work, and Qu Qiubai asked him to go to the Shanghai branches of central organs. Mao disagreed. He said, "I want to go out and engage in armed uprisings. I don't want to stay in high-rise buildings. I want to go to the mountains and befriend our comrades there. On August 9, Mao attended the meeting of the Provisional Central Politburo, where he criticized Hunan for organizing an army division for the Nanchang Uprising, following the errors of Guangdong. He believed that "Hunan's popular organizations are expanding beyond Guangdong, but they lack arms." He said pointedly, "We must form a division in Hunan, arm it, and occupy five or six counties, forming a political foundation upon which to develop an agrarian revolution." Concerning the autumn riots, he held that "even if they fail, there is no need to go to Guangdong. It is better to climb a mountain." In mid¬August, Mao went to Hunan to lead the Autumn Harvest Uprising as a special commissioner of the Central Committee. On August 18, he delivered important opinions in the riots and land issues at the Provincial Party Meeting held in Changsha. He advocated that the development of the autumn harvest efforts in Hunan were meant to address the issue of the peasants'land. He pointed out that the power of the peasantry alone was insufficient to launch a riot, and that military aid was necessary. The point of the riot was to seize political power. The mistake the Party had made in the past was to ignore the need for military power. Now, it must give 60% of its energy to the military movement, and it must seize power and establish its own political control through the use of guns. He believed that, in order for the peasants to be able to fully grasp power, the landlords'land had to be confiscated and handed over to the peasants." On September 9, Mao launched the Hunan Autumn Harvest Uprising. The obvious feature of this uprising was that many armed peasants and workers participated, and the flag of the Workers' and Peasants' Revolutionary Army was publicly displayed. The uprising still aimed to capture the central city, Changsha. When the plans of various insurgents to attack Changsha were frustrated, Mao showed his unique ability to summarize lessons from earlier experience in a timely way, opting to make a decisive change in the original deployment. He decided to make a "transfer" at the Wenjia City Meeting, and led the troops to "climb the mountain," seeking to establish a foothold in the mountainous areas where the enemy was weak. As a result, the Autumn Harvest Uprising troops retreated toward Pingxiang and marched south along the Luojing Mountains. After the Three Bays Adaptation, at the end of October, Mao led the division to the nearby Jinggangshan region. After climbing the mountain, under Mao's leadership, the troops mobilized the masses to help the local residents restore, rectify, and establish Party organizations, carry out an agrarian revolution, establish the Red Army and the revolutionary regime of workers and peasants, carry out extensive guerrilla warfare, and vigorously strengthen the construction of the Red Army. Jinggangshan became the first rural revolutionary base in the country and in practice, it lit the fire of the stars of the 'armed division of workers and peasants."
However, the revolutionary practice of the CPC's founding of rural revolu¬tionary bases, as represented by Mao Zedong, was not at that time accepted by the whole Party, nor was it accepted by the Comintern. Many in the Party expressed doubts about whether a small, or even a few small, revolutionary bases could exist for long. The dogmatists dismissed this great creation as "the peasant mindset," while the Comintern believed that "the workers' and peasants' revolution is moving toward a climax, and the official policy of the CPC was to prepare for that revolutionary climax, the main task ofwhich was to prepare for a widespread launch' between the cities and villages and several neighboring provinces." Therefore, it was necessary to oppose the "disorderly, unrelated guerrilla war that is destined to fail." In order to implement the instructions of the Comintern regarding the adaptation of urban and rural areas and neighboring provinces, the Central Committee of the CPC specifically arranged for the road leading to Pingyue along the Hunan-Guangdong border to serve as the riot line that would bring the completion of victory to Hunan Province. They placed armed forces from the Jinggangshan Revolutionary Base in the Luojing Mountain Range as part of the province-wide riots Mao had initiated, then ordered Mao to lead the troops and "expand" the base areas and merge with the groups in southeastern Hunan and northern Guangdong. At the time, Mao also believed that the establishment of the base area in the countryside was for the purpose of accompanying the uprising in the central city. The difference was that he could proceed from the specific circumstances at the time to determine his work policy. Mao suggested different views on the instructions of the Central Committee and the Hunan Provincial Party Committee. He believed that in the period of temporary stability of the ruling class, the principle of separating the troops should not be adopted, but that only a consolidated approach should be taken. Mao summed up the experience of armed uprisings since the August 7 th Meeting, offering six arguments against the Red Army driving Hunan to "expand" the base areas, suggesting instead that it should first consolidate the revolutionary base areas in the Luojing Mountains to prepare for a "long-term struggle with the enemy." He emphasized the importance of consolidating the revolutionary base areas, saying, "This sort of proposition is by no means a conservative concept. In the past, national riots have flourished all over. Once the enemy launches a counter-offensive, it is like we are washing a river,
